The share price of retail conglomerate Steinhoff International was down by 5% during Wednesday’s intra-day trade after a media report said the retailer did not inform investors about deals worth $1 billion (R14.2 billion at the time of writing).   Steinhoff’s share price was down 5.09% to R58.75 at 11:15 on a Reuters report that the German-listed retailer did not inform investors about material transitions with a related company despite European laws that require it to do so. The transactions are believed to relate to Steinhoff’s purchase in 2015 of a 45% stake in Swiss company GT Branding Holding and loan to the acquired company of about 810 million Swiss francs (R11.5 billion). The loans came shortly after Steinhoff bought the 45% stake in GT Branding Holding. According to the Reuters report, European financial disclosure rules, including the European Union Prospectus Directive, say publicly-traded companies must disclose all transactions that are material in the prospectuses they present before a debt or equity sale. Steinhoff listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in December 2015. Reuters also referred to a law that says a material transaction is one that is big enough to influence investors’ view of the firm’s financial health. However, the law does not define the details of a material transaction. The details of Steinhoff allegedly reneging to inform investors about the GT Branding Holding transaction emerged from publicly available company filings that have not previously been reported. Sources told Reuters the GT Branding Holding transaction was large enough to be material and that European Union rules also require disclosure of all transactions with related parties.  Steinhoff told Reuters that it complied with all reporting requirements including internal accounting rules and the Prospectus Directive. The non-disclosure allegations follow a separate investigation into Steinhoff for its suspected accounting irregularities in Germany. The investigation is ongoing and Steinhoff denied allegations of wrongdoing. 