One of the biggest issues impacting the South African economy at the moment is depressed business confidence. Speaking at an inclusive growth summit in Cape Town this week, senior economist at the Bureau for Economic Research, Hugo Pienaar, noted that confidence has been so low for so long that it was becoming ‘a structural impediment to growth’. The reasons for this lack of confidence are well known. Policy uncertainty, poor leadership and a volatile political environment are making businesses uncomfortable. “One of the key ways in which low business confidence translates into the real economy is that private sector companies are not investing,” said Pienaar. “There is a close correlation between business, the levels of the confidence index and the year-on-year growth in private sector fixed capital formation. For the last few years, those numbers have both been declining.” This makes it very noteworthy when someone bucks this trend in a significant way. Over the last few months the PSG Group has invested nearly R1 billion in two South African businesses, making it a clear exception to the general consensus. In September it bought 50% of retirement village developer Evergreen Lifestyle via its investment subsidiary PSG Alpha for R675 million. Last month PSG Alpha then invested over R300 million into Curro subsidiary Stadio Holdings, which focuses on private tertiary education. This is a serious amount of money to be putting into South Africa when most people are so negative on the economy. PSG Group founder, Jannie Mouton, is not, however, most people. “We believe there are opportunities in South Africa,” Mouton told Moneyweb at the launch of the Evergreen retirement village at Val de Vie in Paarl this week. “And if you focus on the opportunities and not the problems then you realise this is a fantastic country.” He noted that the team at PSG Alpha is mandated to find those opportunities and they can only do so if they have the right mindset. “If you train your brain to always look at how negative things are in South Africa, you slowly fall behind,” Mouton said. “So we won’t listen to them if they come to us with problems. They are not there to look at problems. They are there to look at new opportunities. Their minds are set to look at something positive.” He added that while many South African companies are taking money offshore, PSG believes the best investment opportunities are still at home. “I always tell my friends and colleagues that we don’t have a chance to start an Evergreen or Capitec or Curro or Europe,” Mouton said. “It’s been done there. The opportunities are here. In the Netherlands or Switzerland or Austria, there is simply no opportunity to start a Curro. Education is working there. But in South Africa there are still many opportunities.” Even though Curro is filling a need that is created by a troubled local education system, he argued that PSG’s investment thesis is not based on the problem being solved, but the opportunity being created. “We won’t build a business on political problems,” said Mouton. “We would look at whether the business makes sense. I don’t think we’ve ever mentioned the political situation in South Africa at any time when we were discussing the Evergreen investment. And the same with Curro. We don’t talk abut politics. We just see [that] it’s an opportunity.” For Mouton, PSG’s latest investments are also not an attempt to take advantage of potentially low prices at the bottom of an economic cycle. “For long-term investments like us, we can’t wait for a cycle to invest in Evergreen or Curro or Capitec,” Mouton said. “When the opportunity is there, you invest.” This doesn’t, however, mean that Mouton is oblivious to the risks in South Africa, or that he completely disregards the political environment. His concerns do not however override his optimism. “I’m also worried about the politics in SA,” he said. “We are all worried, but I think we are on the right track. The country is standing up against corruption and mismanagement. We are very, very positive that things will get better. My gut feel is that they will.”