The National Treasury has confirmed that its long-standing budget head Michael Sachs has resigned – adding to a growing list of departures of significant expertise at the institution. According to a statement, Sachs, who has been at Treasury for eight years and headed the budget office that is responsible for crafting the national budget, expressed his interest to “serve the public sector in a different capacity”. Although Treasury did not explain the reason behind Sachs’ resignation, media reports have suggested that he resigned last week due to President Jacob Zuma’s interference in the budgeting process. Treasury said Sachs will not be leaving the institution immediately, in order to ensure a proper handover to another senior official and to “allow for a smooth transition with as little interruption to the work of the budget office as possible”. “Both the Director-General [Dondo Mogajane] and I are aware of protecting the integrity and transparency of the Budget system and process, and ensure that all tax and expenditure decision processes continue to be run by the Treasury and Minister of Finance, and continues with the consultative process introduced by the first democratic government,” said Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba. Zuma is pushing for a free higher education policy for students coming from families earning a combined annual income of not more that R350 000. The free education policy would cost R40 billion to an already constrained fiscus and put the Treasury’s budgeting process under significant strain. The Presidency has denied this. Zuma’s free-fee plan and speculation over Sachs’ resignation has sparked a sell off in the rand during Monday’s intra-day trade. The rand has weakened by 0.76% from 9:00am when the local unit was trading at R14.40. Sachs apparently resigned last week in protest at the interference by Zuma in the budgeting process, which has been delegated to the Presidential Fiscal Committee (PFC). The PFC, overseen by Zuma, is understood to be taking decisions about the budget. If Zuma pushes his policy, it would undermine Treasury’s role in keeping a lid on government spending and wasteful expenditure and finding the best ways to grow the economy. Since Zuma’s cabinet reshuffle in March, which saw former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas fired, the Treasury has been rocked by leadership changes. Along with the axing of Gordhan and Jonas, Treasury’s director-general Lungisa Fuzile resigned and deputy director general Andrew Donaldson retired.