Net1 UEPS Technologies, a unit of which distributes welfare payments in South Africa, understated its profit from the government contract in a submission to the country’s Constitutional Court that was audited by KPMG LLP, a report released by a development-economics research agency said. The court demanded the submission from Net1 subsidiary Cash Paymaster Services this year because the company continued to distribute more than R150 billion ($10.7 billion) of welfare payments a year on behalf of the government even though its contract was ruled illegal in 2014 after tender procedures weren’t followed. The court this year said CPS couldn’t profit from an illegal contract. The statement submitted to the court “appears to underestimate the pretax profits of CPS from the unlawful contract by between R214.2 million and R614.4 million,” the Alternative Information & Development Centre said in the report. “The figures in the statement do not match the revenue from social-grant distribution in South Africa in annual reports from Net1.” The report adds to criticism of the conduct of both Net1 and the state welfare agency, which put payments of 17 million grants under threat by failing to comply with an earlier court order to find a replacement for Net1. That forced the court to allow CPS’s contract to be extended until April next year to keep the money flowing. It also drags KPMG into a fresh controversy less than three months after most of its senior South African staff quit following an internal probe that questioned their work for government and a family that does business with relatives of President Jacob Zuma. The AIDC also said that CPS classified a R117.1 million transaction to include black partners into the business, a regulatory requirement, and R41.8 million of bonuses for management as expenses when they should not have been. The CPS statement also doesn’t clarify whether the figures presented include profits from subsidiaries that are also involved in grant distribution and security arrangements for those. In May CPS said it made a profit of R1.1 billion from the welfare contract in its submission to the court. Net1 could only comment once it had assessed the report, a company representative said. Nqubeko Sibiya, a spokesman for KPMG in South Africa, didn’t answer his mobile phone or respond to a text message seeking comment. The AIDC’s report was commissioned by the Centre for Applied Legal Studies, a legal center based in Johannesburg, and the Black Sash Trust, a South African human-rights group. “The report demonstrates that CPS has not disclosed the full extent of its profits from the unlawful contract,” the groups said in a statement accompanying the report. “This report also suggests additional staggering costs to the state.” © 2017 Bloomberg