For retirees in living annuities, the three years to mid-2017 was a very tough period. A conservative balanced-type strategy delivered roughly 6% per annum over the period and a meagre 4% over one year. Inflation likely ate away at portfolios even before drawdowns were taken into account. Why subject yourself to the volatility associated with share exposure, if you can do better investing in a money market or income-type fund, many asked? Even outside the retirement universe, some investors became frustrated and nervous.   Elize Botha, managing director of Old Mutual Unit Trusts, says following the axing of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan in March, the firm saw a lot of activity across its unit trust book and significant outflows. “We actually saw an uptick especially where there weren’t advisors involved and across our book we saw people just switching.” Botha says it is not always easy to track where the money went, but switching did not only involve moves to money market or income-based funds – sometimes investors just preferred to sit in cash because they deem it to be “safer”.  But after three years of muted returns and despite on-going warnings that investors had to adjust their return expectations, a survey conducted by Coronation in June and July showed that the average investor’s return expectations for its income and growth funds were broadly in line with the expectation for long-term growth funds, which take on significantly more risk. “In reaction, many frustrated investors across the industry have moved their savings away from income-and-growth funds, which have exposure to shares. An estimated R20 billion has been withdrawn over the past year, and a lot of the money has ended up in more conservative options, including managed income funds and cash deposits,” Pieter Koekemoer, head of personal investments at Coronation, writes in the Corospondent. Retirement David Gluckman, head of special projects at Sanlam Employee Benefits, says financial advisors assisting living annuity policyholders would have had lots of complaints as retirees saw their capital eroded in a muted-return environment. Projections of how long retirees’ capital would last would have been revised downwards in many instances. A reduction in the capital value of a retirement fund is not an immediate problem for someone who is still working, but post-retirement, it is an immediate problem, he says. The problem is compounded by the fact that the average replacement ratio (the portion of a person’s final salary just before retirement he or she can sustainably replace in retirement) is around 30%. While living annuities are good products for the right clients, sequencing risk in these vehicles means that bad market conditions in early retirement increases a retiree’s chances of running out of money significantly. But patience is a virtue. Fast-forward four months and by end October, investors who remained invested in the same conservative balanced fund-type strategy would have seen returns recover to roughly 11% over one year and 8% per annum over three years. Trying to time the market is a mug’s game. A well-known JP Morgan study shows that the top ten trading days in the US market over a 20-year period were responsible for roughly half the overall return, but six of the ten best days occurred within two weeks of the ten worst days. Botha says the situation is not fundamentally different in the local market – investors are missing out on significant opportunities by reacting nervously and switching to more conservative portfolios. There may also be cases where some advisors are nervous to commit retirees’ money to appropriately aggressive portfolios with growth assets for fear of being reported to the Fais Ombud. Advisors sometimes, understandably, feel that they would rather be conservative than risk losing clients’ money, she says. “But the silent killer to any wealth is inflation and people underestimate the destructive power of inflation. “The longevity factor is becoming real and it is going to be an increasing issue. People are living longer as medicine is getting better.” Even in retirement a portion of an investor’s capital still needs exposure to growth assets if he or she wants to ensure the money lasts, she says. Koekemoer says even conservative investors need some exposure to growth assets to be able to maintain their spending power through retirement, but investors have to be patient and look beyond short-term pain to avoid locking in losses by selling low and buying high. “Ultimately, we strongly believe that the key risk that more conservative income-and-growth investors need to avoid – counterintuitively – is not taking on enough risk,” he writes.