Judge Brian Spilg who presides in the protracted criminal trial of Tigon-accused Gary Porritt and Sue Bennett, told the court on Wednesday that he was doing everything possible to ensure that the accused are aware of their rights and obligations. Porritt and Bennett are unrepresented in the trial. They claim to have run out of money and that they cannot pay legal teams. When Legal Aid earlier assisted them on occasion, they were not satisfied with the legal representatives assigned to their matters. Later efforts to obtain assistance from Legal Aid were unsuccessful due to their failure to fully disclose their financial affairs. Investigating officer Sandra van Wyk has however alleged under oath that Porritt has direct or indirect access to assets worth more than R100 million through various trusts. Porritt and Bennett are on trial on more than 3 000 charges of fraud, racketeering and contraventions of the Companies Act, Income Tax Act and the Stock Exchanges Control Act. The charges relate to the collapse of JSE-listed financial services group Tigon around 2002. Porritt was the CEO of Tigon and Bennett a director. The trial only started late last year, as a result of applications and appeals brought by the accused over a period of more than 14 years. The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) earlier ruled that the pair were not entitled to Legal Aid and stated: “Given the information supplied by them, one is none the wiser as to why the trusts (or indeed which ones) furnished as much as R23 million for various preliminary legal skirmishes. And why they are no longer willing to fund the defence of either in the criminal trial.” The trial is nearing a crucial stage as the state’s first witness Jack Milne is completing his testimony. Milne was the CEO of Progressive Systems College Guaranteed Growth (PSCGG) – an investment vehicle that was underwritten by Tigon. He has already served a term in jail for his role in the events. After his evidence in chief, which may be completed within days, the accused will have the opportunity to cross-examine him and should be aware of their rights and duties in this regard. Spilg ordered Pietermaritzburg attorney Frank Cohen to appear before him on Wednesday. Cohen has been Porritt’s attorney of record in several matters and applications, including his current petition to the SCA against Spilg’s earlier order to have his bail forfeited and put him in jail. Bennett is on bail. Cohen is also a trustee of the Pembrook Trust together with Porritt’s estranged wife. Porritt’s four adult children are the beneficiaries. The trust has, on occasion, made funds available for some of the accused’s litigation. Cohen was on Wednesday represented by Advocate John Suttner SC. Spilg told Cohen that the court has a dilemma. It is important that the accused should be expalined what their rights and duties are regarding cross-examination, he said. Several documents have also been provisionally admitted and the court has indicated to Porritt and Bennett that they need to make their position clear regarding the admissibility of the documents. Spilg said Porritt and Bennett have accused him of bias. He believes an amicus curiae (friend of the court) should be appointed to assist the accused, but if he appoints someone that person might be tainted (in the eyes of the accused by his perceived bias). He asked whether Cohen should be the amicus. Spilg said he doesn’t want a situation where Cohen – who deals with the appeal later – argues that the accused were not properly advised of their rights and duties, or brings an application to postpone the cross-examination. Cohen objected, stating that he does commercial work and has very little criminal experience. “I wouldn’t know what to do with the documents,” he said. Suttner said Cohen ran a one-man practice and could hardly be taken from the practice to do work for free while being unavailable to paying clients. Spilg gave Cohen an opportunity to explain the availability of R4 million that, according to the court record, was set aside by the trust for the accused’s legal cost. Cohen however said he would forsake his fiduciary duty if he discussed trust matters in court. Cohen told the court that there were informal discussions with Advocate Christo van Schalkwyk SC to represent Porritt in the trial, depending on funds becoming available if the other case proceeds. Nothing has however been formalised. Spilg said he would invite Van Schalkwyk to act as amicus. If Van Schalkwyk refuses, he would have done everything in his power to assist the accused, Spilg said. He nevertheless pointed out to Cohen that he (Cohen) could also put the request to Van Schalkwyk. He urged Cohen to “have a serious talk” with Porritt’s son and said his children are clearly able to assist their father.