Investec has entered the long-term insurance market, launching a suite of products tailor-made for the specialist bank’s clients. Investec Life’s five products, which include a flagship Mortgage Protection Cover, aim to enhance the bank’s offerings and were designed based on feedback from clients as well as research conducted by the bank.   The bank’s move into the insurance space comes almost two decades after it received an insurance licence, when it acquired the now defunct Fedsure’s insurance and financial services businesses in a R5.75 billion deal in 2000/2001. It also comes at a time of increasing competition in banking, with new entrants such as Discovery poised to enter the market in 2018.   Read: Discovery to enter banking sector For the bank, the decision to enter the insurance market came after seeing a need for unique products to meet the needs of its niche clients, said Richard Wainwright, chief executive of Investec Bank Limited South Africa. He added that the challenge put to the team was to build an innovative, capital-light and relatively low-cost business. The amount spent on building the insurance offering was not material and it is not carrying the costs associated with the project on its balance sheet after having written it off at the investment stage, in keeping with Investec’s philosophy, he said. “We’ve done something that is innovative, it is a different channel to market and it is very competitive. We’ve told our shareholders and our analysts that this is not something that in the short term is going to produce large amounts of profits for us and really move the Dow for the group. This is really to enhance our value-add to our clients [and] we think in time it could be a reasonable contributor,” he told media. According to Investec Life, its products adapt to their clients’ changing needs. For example, the premium on its Mortgage Protection Cover adjusts automatically in line with the home loan amount outstanding such that the cover and premium reduces over time, explained Sinenhlanhla Nzama, head product actuary at Investec Life.  This could potentially save clients around 20% to 35% in premiums over the loan term.     Its Life Cover is also unique in that the premiums are age-rated, meaning that premiums for the same level of cover are likely to increase as the policyholder ages. It has also committed to paying beneficiaries up to R300 000 upfront, with the first R100 000 within two business days, while the claim is assessed. Beneficiaries also have the option to have large payments made as a lump sum or in installments. The premiums on its Severe Illness Cover are also age-rated. In addition to covering more than 300 conditions, it also “auto-upgrades” such that automatic cover is included for unknown future severe illnesses. It also provides for the treatment of stage 0 cancer. The full suite of products are fully integrated within Investec’s One Place digital platform and are currently available to its Private Bank clients.   Michael Goemans, chief executive of Investec Life, said the use of smart digital underwriting questions, built into One Place, as well as existing data based on banking relationships is used to risk profile clients and tailor both products and processes to meet individual client needs.      He said the offerings are underpinned by simplicity in order to take the “grudge” out of both the purchase and processes.