African nations hold the talent and potential to accelerate technology, innovation and the African narrative, but the execution of recruiting this talent and channeling it in the right direction is slowing progress on the continent. Speaking at the Standard Bank business breakfast on Africa: A collaborative approach required, brand communication specialist Musa Kalenga, said that in the last financial period, data confirmed that six African countries are among the fastest-growing economies in the world. These are Rwanada, Tanzania, Mozambique, Cote d’Ivore, DRC and Ethiopia, respectively.  He said given the positive growth and expansion of such nations, companies like Facebook and various other global businesses are finding more opportunities for investment there. In addition, these nations were able to own the narrative about business in Africa, relaying the potential that exists within the continent. “There’s a move towards a discussion that is starting to quantify the opportunities in Africa in the next decade, which creates a very interesting landscape for businesses to play in,” said Kalenga.   Jorge Camarate, a financial planner at PwC, presented the findings of a survey in which 80 African CEOs were interviewed. He said, from the talent and technology perspective, half of African CEOs were expected to increase headcount in the next 12 months. When it comes to recruiting talent, African CEOs only mention the need to have diversity and inclusive policies in the workplace. However, “we need to focus on people’s strategy to develop skills and talent that is needed in the long term”. When investing in local skill development, technology growth takes a more organic form. Kalenga said this makes the overall approach more sustainable in the long term. “Technology businesses are going to have a more organic and sustained approach, because we going to have to be holding the pipelines of these technologies that we are hoping to employ,” he said.   There is an importance for African nations to gain recognition to run the business, not only for profit and for the shareholder but also taking into account the stakeholder expectations. “We must think about the ways of galvanising these resources, and create environments that they can buy into… I believe that’s where we going to drive the change from,” Kalenga added.   Technologies and strategies From a sector perspective, there is an increase in investments in new technologies and industries. Camarate said these technologies can be scaled up very quickly and be used to solve latent needs of the continent. An example is power generation, and the use of solar panels and renewables to address issues with power distribution and power generation, in different countries. Brandon Katz of Catalyst Solutions spoke about the use of the Section 12J tax incentive, which helps larger businesses invest in small- to medium-sized businesses and start-ups. The investor essentially gets a return on their investment based on their tax bracket. Katz said investing into solar panels has become a popular option for most companies, because of the increased attention on renewable energy, especially in South Africa. “Solar panels have shown the most growth in section 12J incentives for investing in South Africa. It’s a great way to get a return on an investment,” he said.   In doing so Katz said South Africa’s expansion also relies on increasing exports to different nations. South Africa, specifically, has the potential and competitiveness in the trading environment. “We do have a lot of manufacturing going on in South Africa, and we are really competitive in that space. I think there’s a lot more potential in South Africa exporting, that hasn’t been touched,” he said. Owning the narrative There is an increased emphasis on mobile phone culture and the influence it holds in sharing stories. Everyone with a device is a potential broadcaster, and Kalenga said this comes with a lot of responsibility. The ordinary citizen, alongside business, has a role to play in showing Africa’s talent to the world. There is a responsibility that the ordinary citizen has to attract investors and prove that Africa holds talent, and simultaneously, own Africa’s narrative. Kalenga said it enables an opportunity for ordinary citizens to be able to change the narrative for Africa. “There are people who are capturing moments and are able to articulate certain things within Africa that are very difficult for a lot of people to explain, but when expressed by an ordinary citizen, makes absolute sense,” he said. There is also an importance for citizens to address issues of concern via the platforms that are at their disposal. “That approach from a citizen and normal person has got to be important for all of us to paint the right picture, and ultimately move the continent forward,” he said. When it comes to businesses and the private sector, similar rules apply, however businesses have the advantage of information and data of their audiences, that when used properly can reap favourable results. “Most businesses understand consumer patterns and behaviour and map them over years. As a broadcaster who has access to a mine of data, use that data to inform your strategy,” he said The data can be used to build business models and business products and brands that speak to the targeted consumers. For example, he said, “use that data and information to have productive, proactive conversations about issues of diversity”. Investment in technology and embracing new technologies has enabled companies to address latent needs that leapfrog some of the challenges to operating on the continent. Using the correct technologies and strategies alongside the resources and talent that Africa holds, Africans and African businesses themselves will be able to carry the continent even further.