Already bruised by political and budget troubles, the rand faces its next crucial test in less than 24 hours: reviews by two ratings companies. S&P Global Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service are reviewing the country’s credit ratings on Friday, and nine of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the former to deliver a cut to the nation’s domestic debt. Four see a similar action by Moody’s. A demotion to sub-investment grade by both agencies will result in South Africa’s exclusion from Citigroup’s World Government Bond Index, hurting demand for the nation’s currency and bonds. The rand slumped almost 6% versus the dollar since the end of June, the worst emerging-market performance after the Turkish lira, as October’s medium-term budget estimated a larger government deficit as well as slower economic growth. A double debt downgrade, combined with unresolved political uncertainties, could see the currency plunge more than 18% to 17 per dollar by year-end, according to Nedbank Group.      “A potential $10 billion can be heading for the door” if both S&P and Moody’s cut South African ratings, said Ilke Van Zyl, an economist at Rand Merchant Bank. Although finance minister Malusi Gigaba “made mildly positive noise in parliament on Wednesday, saying government will push through spending cuts of R25 billion ($1.8 billion) and raise revenue by R15 billion in the February 2018 budget, this won’t meaningfully impact the decisions of the rating agencies.” Fitch Ratings affirmed South Africa’s debt rating at BB+ with a stable outlook on Thursday. The move provides South Africa with an opportunity to strive for an improved credit profile, the National Treasury said in emailed statement. The rand weakened 1% to 14.02 per dollar as of 12:32pm in Johannesburg on Friday, while the yield on the nation’s 10-year local debt was little changed at 9.36%. Below is a selection of analysts’ views on potential rand reaction to a rating cut. Rand Merchant Bank ETM Analytics ING Groep     SEB AB Nedbank Group Read: Downgrades: The R140bn question © 2017 Bloomberg