JSE-listed real estate company Freedom Property Fund has aggressively written-down the value of properties by more than R1 billion and has admitted to valuation errors that date back to 2013. Most of the valuation errors were discovered in Freedom’s properties that were purchased between May and October 2013, prior to the company’s listing in 2014. In its pre-listing statement, Freedom listed 17 residential, commercial and industrial property assets valued at R1.5 billion. In its 2015 integrated report, Freedom ascribed a value of R1.7 billion to the 17 properties. This was later reduced to R382 million in a 2015-year-end revaluation. This is effectively a R1.3 billion write down. In a Sens announcement published on Tuesday, Freedom said it has undertaken a revaluation of its properties after an International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) expert expressed discomfort with the historical valuations. The IFRS expert had consulted with Freedom’s senior management and external auditor. Freedom replaced RSM South Africa as its external auditor in November with audit firm Moore Stephens. Adele Smith is the audit partner. In complying with the concerns raised by IFRS expert, Freedom appointed an independent valuer Theuns Behrens of Real Insight to review the valuations of the company’s property portfolio for the year to the end of February 2017. This valuation revealed a valuation of R325.9 million after six properties were sold by the company. Freedom said each of its properties is treated as inventory and is not disclosed as investment property on its balance sheet. Freedom said the results of its latest revaluation will be included in the company’s annual financial statements for its 2016 and 2017 financial years, whilst the 2015 year will be restated. The property revaluation error is the latest blow for Freedom, which has suffered the suspension of its shares from the JSE due to the delays in publishing its financial results. Freedom said it found reportable irregularities in its financial statements which delayed their publication. The company, under recently appointed CEO Steven Maritz, instituted an urgent interim interdict in 2016 at the Eastern Cape High Court against former CEO Tyrone Govender and former associates Graham Stavridis and Clifford Cawood, barring all three from selling their Freedom shares. Maritz accused the three of concluding several irregular property acquisitions in 2015 that were not above board and in shareholders’ interests. The reportable irregularities highlighted by Freedom’s auditor involved four property transactions worth almost R21 million that were concluded by the Govender, Stavridis and Cawood. The court dismissed Freedom’s application and a cost order was awarded in favour of the three. A civil case is still pending.