As US (and South African) stock markets reached all-time highs last week investors could be forgiven for wondering where and when the current eight-year bull market will end. One group of investors who might be sleeping more comfortably than most are the deep value investors who invest in unloved and out of favour stocks, which by their nature are already cheap. These are not the beverages, healthcare, retail or trendy tech stocks that are priced for perfection and have a long way to fall. Instead they are the banks, energy companies, old order IT companies (like Cisco and Intel) and commodity stocks, many of which sit on a PE of less than 12. But it takes a firm conviction and a healthy measure of courage to buy stocks like these, which are unpopular – just ask value-investing pioneers like Coronation, Investec and RECM. According to research from Morningstar, of the 1 405 equity-focused global unit trusts, with a collective £700 billion in assets under management, less than 7% are invested in value stocks today. “That means that 93% of global asset managers are focused on growth stocks, which is an extraordinary growth bias,” says Nick Kirrage, co-manager of the Schroder Global Recovery Fund, which aims to identify and exploit deeply out of favour investment opportunities. This bias is perhaps unsurprising given the outperformance of growth stocks relative to value stocks. Value has underperformed growth for the longest period on record, as reflected by the MSCI World Value and Growth indexes.  In today’s uncertain world, people want certainty from their investments. “The last ten years in particular have been a shocker for value investors, and that is a long time in a world where people check returns every month,” says Kirrage. Why now?  However, he is of the view that a change in the fortunes of value investors is coming. That’s because eventually everything reverts back to a mean, he says. Securities trading at a discount to the fundamental value of their underlying businesses cannot maintain that discount indefinitely. Given the extent of value’s weakness, its potential recovery could be profound. That is, only if investors follow one basic rule. “The cheaper the stock, the better the return,” says Kirrage. “This lies at the heart of value investing – and has been the case for 140 years.”  During China’s boom years so much industrial capacity was added to the global economy that demand and supply have been out of sync for years. The result was deflation and investors who have been willing to pay more and more for the certainty of growth. Those stocks that did not fit the bill were ignored. “When you look at banks, commodity stocks and food and drug retailers, there is no fund manager that wants to touch them. The disparity between what is cheap and the rest of the market is increasing,” says Kirrage. This is unsustainable, particularly in an environment of rising interest rates. For value investors however, rising interest rates could lay the foundation for a sustained recovery in value.  Consistent returns are not just luck Despite the market’s bias towards growth stocks, the Schroders Global Recovery fund has generated a total return of 47.9%, compared to 44.5% from the benchmark (the MSCI World Index) since its launch in 2015 (Schroders value investing team has been operating together since 2006). Between September 2016 and September 2017 the fund generated returns of 19.1%, outperforming the benchmark by 4.7%. Just having a strong investment philosophy is not sufficient to generate consistent returns. This is dependent on a disciplined process that sees you “grinding it out year after year and repeating the process,” says Kirrage. “We live in a probabilistic world. I cannot forecast the future and the probabilities of the world, so we have a checklist in terms of how we think about things like the balance sheet, the profit and loss and businesses generally. We weigh the risk against the reward.” It’s worth noting that the Schroders Global Return Fund doesn’t look much like the MSCI Value Index. For one it has a significant regional underweight to the US and a large overweight to continental Europe and, in terms of sector, it has a marked overweight to financials. Source: Schroders fund update – Nov 2017 Investments Having a high conviction about a stock doesn’t mean betting the farm. When Kirrage and his co managers invested in the Royal Bank of Scotland the stock was in free fall. “I invested  1% of client funds into a bank that has been around for 200 years. I don’t know the future, but I cannot think of another sector that has derisked as aggressively as the banking sector has. Banks are inherently cyclical but they are being stress tested all the time.” About 20% of Global Recovery portfolio is invested in seven or eight global banking stocks. The team was not invested in mining stocks until about 2014 when stocks started to look really cheap. “Even then we were too early and Anglo American halved on us; 2015 was the bottom of the cycle and we had 10% of our portfolio in mining stocks – it felt like 90%.” Since then Lonmin has returned losses, but the small return from Impala and large return from Anglo American more than compensated for this. “With a portfolio of 50 stocks, if 28 are great ideas and 22 are disastrous ideas and I repeat that percentage every year for 30 years, I’m in top quintile of managers who ever lived,” Kirrage says. Worst failure Sometimes things go wrong and for the value team this was US-based Apollo Education. They started investing steadily in 2015 and by 2016 it occupied one of the biggest positions across all of Schroders six value funds. It ticked all of their ‘value’ boxes: it was despised by the market – largely because the regulatory environment in which it was operating was truly awful; it was cheap – the valuation saw the company trading at just 2x its lowest profits; it had a very strong balance sheet.  So with conviction like this, how did they lose money? All too easily, Kirrage says. In February 2016, a consortium of private equity investors bought Apollo at a price not far off its lowest-ever share price. “This just shows how confidence can be completely illusory in investment.  Recent additions to the fund Thanks to the impact of Amazon (among others), US retailers are hurting and are the biggest new opportunity in the fund. “We have done work on about 30 firms – the likes of Abercrombie, Guess, Dillards and Buckle – examining valuations, debt levels, lease structures and so on. We have dipped a toe into Buckle and Dillards. They own their own stores, have conservative financing and are family-owned. Yet their shares are priced for failure.” The team will be sure that at least one or two of these investments will pay off. The writer was a guest of Schroders at a recent media event in London.