Industrial minerals and construction materials provider Afrimat is the latest company to list its shares on the start-up exchange A2X. Afrimat will retain its primary listing on the JSE and its issued share capital will be unaffected by its secondary listing on A2X. It begins trading on A2X on Thursday, November 9. The company joins African Rainbow Capital Investments, Coronation and Peregrine Holdings, which all have secondary listings on the exchange. A2X opened its doors for business on October 6. Read: Coronation, Peregrine and ARC the first to list on A2X At the moment A2X is only accepting secondary listings, which means a company must be listed on the JSE or elsewhere to qualify for a listing. This may change in the future. The JSE’s top companies have been slow to apply for a secondary listing, despite this being a well-established practice both internationally and in South Africa. Of the top ten companies by market cap on the JSE, seven, including Richemont, Anheuser-Busch and British American Tobacco, have a secondary listing on the JSE. However in these instances, companies have dual listings in order to gain access to shareholders in different markets. In the case of Afrimat and the others, the secondary listing is to gain access to different shareholders in the same market. “We are hoping the A2X listing will provide us with exposure to a different investor base,” says Mariette Swart, Afrimat company secretary and corporate financial manager. “A2X doesn’t have the same cost structures as the JSE – they are much lower – and this we think will reduce the hurdles for some investors.” Currently just 5% of Afrimat shares are held by international investors. A2X could help Afrimat to diversify its shareholder base by geography.  “A2X has received a lot of interest from off-shore investors,” notes Gary Clarke, the head of legal and regulation at A2X. “International investors are very cost sensitive and the introduction of lower trading fees should make SA a more attractive venue and hopefully will make the shares listed on A2X more visible and accessible to those investors.” The listing will not cost Afrimat anything and does not increase its regulatory burden. Share administration be done by Computershare, as is the case with its JSE listing. Unlike some players in the construction industry, Afrimat is small, diversified and well managed. Its portfolio has two core components. An open-pit mining division where industrial minerals, aggregates and iron ore are sourced from a range of dolomite, limestone, alluvial silica sand, and silica quartz open-pit mines and quarries. And a concrete-based product portfolio which includes processed clinker aggregate for brick and cement making, road and civil applications. Last week the company reported that revenue for the six months to August 31, was virtually flat at R1.2 billion; however headline earnings per share increased by 7.4% from 95.2 cents to 102.2 cents. Cash generation was affected as the company invested in Diro, a small iron ore mine in the Northern Cape that the company acquired out of business rescue. However it was able to announce that it would pay shareholders a 20c dividend. Afrimat has managed to consistently pay dividends since its listing in 2006. A dividend policy of 2.75 times dividend cover is in place. The stability of earnings and dividends is one of the reasons why Afrimat’s relatively small base of shareholders does not easily let go of their shares. The compound annual growth rate in headline earnings per share between 2013 and 2017 is 26.42%. This is closer to an IT stock than a construction stock. Afrimat has 3 380 shareholders and of these, almost half own less than 1 000 shares. Another 40% own less than 10 000 shares. By far the largest proportion of shares – 56% – is held by the company’s founders, founder shareholders and BEE partners. The PIC also holds a small stake. “The listing will not have a major impact on us. But we hope it will improve our liquidity and improve the experience for investors,” says Swart. “We will just have to wait and see what happens.”