Safaricom, Kenya’s biggest mobile telecoms company, reported a sharp drop in profits growth on Friday, hit by a faltering economy partly disrupted by the political uncertainty. The company, 35% owned by South African group Vodacom and 5% by Vodacom’s majority shareholder Vodafone, also said chief executive Bob Collymore has taken leave to undergo “specialised medical treatment” which will take “a number of months”. In the financial half-year ended September 30 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) rose 6.8% to 54.27 shillings ($524 million), which compared with a 30.8% rise to 50.81 billion shillings in the same period last year. “Kenya is going through a difficult macroeconomic situation, which is a reality which will affect Safaricom,” said chief financial officer, Sateesh Kamath.  The CFO, together with Joseph Ogutu, director for strategy and innovation, have taken over Collymore’s responsibilities during his absence. “We have a very strong and robust team and the only thing that may be lacking would be Bob’s presence and his overall image and stature,” said chairman Nicholas Ng’ang’a, who declined to comment further on Collymore’s condition. Kamath also said the company was maintaining its full-year profit forecast for earnings before interest and tax to rise to between 71 and 75 billion shillings, up from 67 billion shillings last time. Last week the east African nation held a repeat presidential election after the Supreme Court nullified the results from an August poll on procedural grounds. President Uhuru Kenyatta won the October 26 contest with 98% of the vote after the opposition boycotted the election, saying it would be unfair. On Friday the opposition called for Kenyans to boycott Safaricom because it had helped transmit results during the October election. A spokesman for the company declined to make any immediate comment. Months of political uncertainty have damaged Kenya’s economy, leading the government to downgrade the growth forecast for this year from 5.9 to 5.5%.  However growth has slowed but not stopped at Safaricom. The company plans to launch an e-commerce service known as Masoko in mid-November, modelled on China’s Alibaba, with the platform already offering 30 000 different products, Kamath said. It also plans to increase the number of houses connected to its fibre broadband network by up to 60% in the next two quarters, from 100 000 currently.  Meanwhile first-half revenue from its mobile money transfer service, M-Pesa, rose 16% to 30 billion shillings, while revenue from phone calls rose by 3.6% to 47.35 billion shillings. Mobile internet service revenue was up by close to a third at 17.55 billion shillings. Total revenue rose to 114.43 billion shillings from 102.10 billion shillings in the same period last year. Earnings per share for Safaricom, typically the most traded stock on the Nairobi Securities Exchange, rose to 0.65 shillings, from 0.60 shillings in the same period last year. Safaricom’s shares were up 2% at 25.75 shillings at 1220 GMT, taking the gain this year to over 34%. In May Vodafone moved to consolidate two of its African interests with the sale of a 35% stake in Safaricom to Vodacom in exchange for an increased stake in Vodacom, where it was already majority owner. ($1 = 103.6000 Kenyan shillings)