In another move to diversify its income stream internationally, fashion retailer TFG (The Foschini Group) has grown its exposure in the UK by purchasing womenswear specialist Hobbs. After months of speculation, the retailer confirmed the purchase for an undisclosed amount on Tuesday. The acquisition comes five-months after TFG delved into Australia by purchasing menswear specialist Retail Apparel Group (RAG) and more than two years after its first offshore move with the acquisition of UK-based fashion retailer Phase Eight for £140 million (R4 billion at the time). Phase Eight was a game changer for TFG as it used the retailer as an entry point into the UK and acquired bolt-on acquisitions including premium fashion chains Whistles and Damsel in a Dress. Bolt-on acquisitions are smaller in scale but offer a developed market foothold to diversify revenue streams. Hobbs is also a bolt-on acquisition, which TFG bought from private equity firm 3i Group.   According to The Sunday Times in the UK, TFG entered the race to acquire Hobbs in July by tabling a bid for the deal, with 3i setting a price tag of £80 million (R1.48 billion at the time of writing). It was understood at the time that TFG was not willing to pay the asking price. Terms of the Hobbs sale have not been disclosed by TFG, the operator of brands including Foschini, Exact, Markham, Totalsports, @Home and others. “We can’t disclose the purchase price at this point due to strict confidentiality clauses at the behest of the seller,” said TFG chief financial officer Anthony Thunström. “We are comfortable with the price that we paid and we didn’t overpay for Hobbs.” TFG and its domestic retail counterparts have been chasing hard-currency earnings through offshore acquisitions over the last three years given SA’s sluggish economy, hard-pressed consumers, rand volatility and increasing political uncertainty. Truworths is exposed to the UK through shoe retailer Office and is reportedly planning to buy struggling womenswear chains Oasis, Coast and Warehouse. Truworths has denied this. Hobbs operates 140 outlets including standalone stores and concessions in the UK. The retailer is stocked in selected departmental stores around the world, including Bloomingdales in the US and Wohrl and SinLeffers in Germany. It also sells its merchandise online in 49 countries. Thunström said at current sterling exchange rates, Hobbs would add about R2.4 billion to TFG’s group turnover next year. “It would shift the needle for us,” he said. Hobbs would also lift the group’s turnover of its UK operations – a subsidiary called TFG London comprising Phase Eight, Whistles and Damsel in a Dress – to approximately £400 million (R7.4 billion). In the six months to September 2017, the TFG London turnover reached £133 million (R2.5 billion) while TFG grew its group turnover to R12.5 billion. “Of the £400 million, £100 million (R1.8 billion) would be through online sales. To have a £100 million business headquartered in the UK is fantastic,” he said. Hobbs grew its gross profit by 8.7% to £76.2 million in the 12 months to January while lifting sales by 9% to £119.5 million during the period thanks to its two-year long turnaround strategy to contain sustained losses. The retailer, led by CEO Meg Lustman over the last three years, has shut underperforming stores, streamlined its head office and improved its product ranges. Synergies will be unlocked, as Hobbs might be incorporated into Phase Eight’s procurement and supply chain network. Market watchers have been jittery about TFG’s expansion into the UK given fears that Brexit could hamper future economic growth, spur a weak pound and dampen consumer spending. Brait’s troubles with UK-based fashion retailer New Look is adding to the concerns. Thunström is unfazed. “I can’t think of any retail market in the world right now that is plain sailing. You are going to get winners and losers. We believe that the specialty retail model is the opposite end of department store retailing. Hobbs will prove itself with the management team we have in place.”