As if Sasol investors are not jittery enough about the company’s giant investment in the US via its controversial Lake Charles Chemicals Project, more cost overruns on the project are on the cards. Sasol will incur an additional $130 million cost in Lake Charles, bringing the project’s cost to a revised $11.13 billion. This is the latest revision to the budget, which is well off the mark from initial estimates when its development started in October 2014. At the time, Lake Charles was budgeted to cost $8.9 billion, but Sasol shocked investors when it pushed up the cost by $2.1 billion to $11 billion in August 2016. The stakes for the project are high with the new plant comprised of an ethane cracker plus downstream chemical plant that will generate ethylene at a rate of 1.5 million tonnes/year and triple the company’s chemical production in the US. Sasol’s management might be forgiven for the latest upward cost revision as extreme weather events – mainly Hurricane Harvey, Irma and Nate that made landfall on the US Gulf Coast in recent months – put the skids on Lake Charles’ construction productivity levels.   Hurricanes are common in the US Gulf Coast (mainly in Louisiana and Florida) and the damages of Hurricane Harvey, Irma, and Nate – which landed between August and October 2017 – has been estimated to be collectively more than $300 billion. Extreme weather events are the latest excuses; previously Sasol blamed sloppy budgeting processes and poor execution of the project. Sasol’s president and joint CEO Stephen Cornell said the cost of big and unplanned events, such as hurricanes, was not covered in the project’s budget and its contingency plans. Cornell said the contingency plan only covered price escalations with contractors, equipment, the productivity of the workforce and errors of the project’s estimate. Joint president and CEO Bongani Nqwababa said Lake Charles’ costing had factored in some rain, including a ten- or 20-year average rainfall estimate, but not the project being hit by three consecutive hurricanes. Not only have the costs been revised but the project’s completion date has been pushed from mid-2017 to likely mid-2018 given its present completion rate of 79%. Growth strategy Lake Charles is expected to be a game changer as its completion is expected to be a key driver for Sasol’s future growth. Sasol unveiled a strategy to drive the group’s future growth between 2018 to 2030 at its capital markets day on Thursday. Sasol will restrict its capital allocation to exploration and production opportunities in Mozambique and selected West African countries, disinvest from its shale gas assets in Canada, and cease further investments in greenfields gas-to-liquids (GTL) plants. Tracy Brodziak, a senior investment professional at the Old Mutual Equities boutique at Old Mutual Investment Group, said in a low oil price environment, it doesn’t make sense to build GTL plants given the high capital requirements of such projects. “One would probably need oil prices of over $100/barrel [from current $63/barrel],” she said. Brodziak said Old Mutual Investment Group, which holds a 2.8% stake in Sasol, is supportive of the company developing a framework for capital allocation. Paul Victor, the chief financial officer, said 100 assets were evaluated and a majority will be retailed, retained or fixed. “Assets in the chemical space that don’t have a fit anymore would be disposed,” he said without naming specific assets. Victor said this growth strategy is expected to balance growth and increase returns to shareholders. The latter is significant as patient shareholders in recent years have stomached dividend cuts as Sasol retained capital in the business to fund Lake Charles. Once Lake Charles is commissioned, it’s expected to be earnings accretive, adding 20% or $1.3 billion to earnings by 2022. Lake Charles and Sasol’s stated growth strategy is expected to lift its dividend payouts from 36% of profits to 40% between 2018 to 2022 and 45% thereafter. A 2% improvement in its return on invested capital (ROIC) from its full-year 2017 ROIC of 12% (excluding assets under construction) is expected in the next five years. As more cash is generated, debt on its balance sheet that has ballooned due to the Lake Charles investment is expected to reduce. Sasol is eyeing a debt-to-equity (gearing) ratio of 30% from the present 44%. Its targeted dividend payouts, ROIC and gearing hinges on a low oil price scenario of $50/barrel and a high scenario of $70/barrel.