With Black Friday and the festive season around the corner, online shoppers should take cognisance of sales but also be wary about protecting themselves from cybercrime and online phishing attacks. Black Friday creates an easy space for cyber attackers to infiltrate common online payment system brands such as Mastercard or Visa, or otherwise via popular online retail brands, such as Amazon or eBay. Moving away from big sale day, Kaspersky Lab found that the day following Black Friday, now termed, ‘Grey Saturday’, is a safer day to shop. The report revealed that Grey Saturday is a safer day to shop since Black Friday and Cyber Monday have become popular shopping days, thus providing greater opportunities to phishing attackers.   Grey Saturday was identified during Kaspersky Lab’s annual review of new financial phishing attacks detected during the holiday sales season. The Kasperskey Cybersecurity Index surveyed respondents from over 30 countries, and found that Grey Saturday attacks dropped in both 2016 and 2015. In 2016, there was a decline of 33% in the number of attacks using the popular online retail and payment brands.   Although Black Friday is still in its infancy in South Africa, more consumers are beginning to see the convenience and choice associated with shopping online especially during the holiday season.   Nadezhda Demidova, lead web-content analyst, Kaspersky Lab, said the rise in e-commerce and online shopping has also resulted in an increase in cybercrime activity and phishing attacks, but the holiday season has made it easier for scammers to hide in the noise. “At this time of year, marketing and advertising levels go through the roof, and with consumers increasingly making their transactions on mobiles – probably while out and about and in a hurry – almost everyone is more exposed and has less time to think and check,” she said. “On Grey Saturday the number of attacks drop significantly. Weekends generally see lower numbers of attacks and fewer people online – but on this big shopping day that’s an extra advantage. We expect this trend from 2016 to continue in 2017, so if you plan on shopping online these holidays, choose the day wisely,” she added. According to Kaspersky Lab, phishing (especially on Black Friday) is one of the most popular ways of stealing personal information, from payment card details and credentials to online banking accounts. Source: Kaspersky Lab  Setting up a phishing scheme requires limited investment and skills. It mainly relies on encouraging people to voluntarily part with their personal and financial information, with belief that they are dealing with a reputable, known brand. Originally spread mainly through e-mails – phishing attacks are now also carried out through website banners and pop-ups, links, instant messaging, SMS, forums, blogs and social media. The Kaspersky Cybersecurity Index revealed that for the 2017 half year, 42% of South Africans in the 25-34 age group were affected by cybercrime, and that a higher percentage of males were affected by cybercrime compared to women. It also showed that a relatively high number of South Africans still remain unconcerned about cybercrime activity. Other findings of the Beyond Black Friday Kaspersky Lab Threat report include Despite reputable retailers taking the initiative to ensure that online platforms are safe from phishing attacks and financial criminality, Kaspersky Lab advises that shoppers take precaution and offers some tips in this regard.