Earlier this month the FTSE/JSE All Share Index closed above 60 000 for the first time in its history. Overall, the market is up close to 20% this year, and all of that has come since the middle of June. This is a big reversal from the three years of effectively zero returns that preceded that point. Anyone who has kept an eye on the JSE will know that the recent surge is largely due to Naspers. The media giant’s share price is up over 85% since January. Naspers is not, however, the top-performing share in the local large- and mid-cap universe. As the table below indicates, Kumba Iron Ore is up almost 100%. Top-performing large- and mid-cap stocks on the JSE As at 27 November 2017. Source: Profile Data This is an interesting list. While it is dominated by resource stocks that have benefited from improved commodity prices, there are other stories here too. Kumba The improvement in sentiment towards Kumba this year follows a period of severe underperformance that saw the company’s share price collapse from R600 in January 2013 to just R25 three years later. It however began to stabilise during the course of 2016. “As the recovery continued to gain momentum and became entrenched, the company started earning super profits again as all-in costs were around $30/tonne with spot iron ore prices recovering all the way to $90/tonne before sliding to current levels of around $65/tonne,” explains 27Four portfolio manager, Nadir Thokan. “The strong recovery in commodity prices enabled strong free cashflow generation from the company and the resumption of strong dividends, which previously had to be cut in order to conserve cash.” Kumba is now offering a dividend yield of over 5%. Hannes van den Berg, portfolio manager at Investec Asset Management however suggests that it is perhaps time to treat the counter with some caution. “At the moment, the market is very concerned about the iron ore price expectations for 2018, but note that the market also underestimated the average iron ore price in 2017,” he says. Naspers The Naspers story is well known, with the driver of its performance being the 33.3% stake it holds in Chinese e-commerce business Tencent. “Tencent began the year with a market capitalisation of under $240 billion, but this month became the fifth largest tech company in the world with a market capitalisation in excess of $500 billion,” notes Thokan. “The strongest driver of returns from Tencent remained the stellar earnings delivery throughout the year evidenced by its latest earnings announcement where they grew revenue in the third quarter by 61%.” Given the gains Naspers has made, there are increasing questions around its valuation. However Van den Berg believes that, if anything, the share is still underpriced. “As Tencent is known for pacing monetisation, which smooths near-term growth but ensures sustainable long-term growth, the market underestimates the monetisation of multiple engines – games, content, payments and cloud,” he argues. “This has only started to unfold and leads to the market constantly underestimating future expectations.” Clicks A South African retailer is certainly the most incongruous member of the list of top performers. Clicks’ share price has however proved very resilient in an environment where concerns about the local economy and the pressure on local consumers have impacted on its peers. However, on a price-to-earnings (PE) multiple of over 31 times, it is now looking quite expensive compared to other local retailers. By way of comparison, Woolworths is trading on a PE of 14 and Shoprite’s PE is 2.1. “Clicks is probably the stock that most got wrong this year because of the valuation,” says Van den Berg. “Despite having a strong balance sheet with no debt, strong free cash flow conversion, excellent management, high return on equity and exciting expansion plans, most of the market agrees that Clicks is looking too expensive relative to peers.” Richemont The luxury goods retailer has benefited as concerns around the Chinese economy have faded. Demand in the world’s second largest economy for items such as watches has not collapsed as some feared it would, and Richemont’s earnings have therefore continued to improve. “With the company maintaining its bulletproof balance sheet, with around 35% of its total market capitalisation in cash, and strong margins protecting returns on equity, stabilising volume growth precipitated a sharp recovery in the share price,” Thokan explains. In addition, the Swiss franc has strengthened while the rand has weakened in the second half of the year, which has pushed up the share price locally. South African investors have also shown strong demand for rand hedges as the local economy continues to struggle. Van den Berg however suggests that investors should be wary at current valuations. “Although recent results and sales numbers were very strong, we are getting more concerned about the tough comparable numbers and base created over the last year,” he points out. “The group stated that ‘while it cannot predict the environment for the full year, it is clear that the full year results on a comparative basis will not see the exceptional growth reported on the period under review’. This is aligned with our current expectations against a tougher comparative and makes us concerned about the valuation that is expecting a lot of good news already.”