Investors seldom consider the accounting policies and disclosures behind a set of financial statements very intently. For most people, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP) and its application is not an enthralling topic. However, this is the language of company reporting – and like any language, it is full of easily overlooked subtleties and innuendos. Investors who think accounting is boring may miss important clues that can help to avoid the very non-boring outcome of losing money. Financial statements are finalised through negotiation Most investors are under the impression that the process of producing a set of accounts is precise, with independent auditors supervising management closely. This is not the case. Auditors do not verify that accounts are accurate, only that they do not contain ‘material misstatements’. In reality, the process of finalising accounts is one of negotiation (as detailed in Table 1) and important clients (who pay substantial fees) can have strong negotiating positions. Table 1: Accounting perceptions versus reality  Though accounting choices can obscure true performance, they still provide valuable insight Management teams have far more discretion in their choice and application of accounting policies than generally imagined. These choices allow them to present a company in a specific way – usually a very flattering one.  While potentially masking true business performance (and making analysis more difficult), the choices themselves provide investors with valuable information. For example, a consistent pattern of aggression or conservatism in accounting policy and disclosure is vitally important evidence, providing a window into the true corporate culture of a business. In fact, it often provides better insight than the typically lengthy and buzzword-laden narrative at the start of most annual reports. It is equally important to scrutinise changes to policies and disclosures: what motivated the change and what is the impact on reporting? Management can be very good at getting investors to ignore statutory earnings Many management teams disclose their own adjusted earnings alongside statutory numbers, using disclaimers such as ‘adjusted’, ‘normalised’, ‘underlying’, ‘operating’ or ‘non-GAAP’. The idea is to eliminate once-off or non-cash items that distort reported earnings, thereby providing ‘clearer’ disclosure. While improved disclosure is laudable, there are several potential problems with adjusted earnings. Firstly, the adjustments are subjectively made by management, and are not subject to accounting standards or audit opinion. As time goes by, the temptation to classify more expenses as ‘non-operating’ grows, especially in tough business environments when it is likely that a company will miss management’s earnings guidance. This temptation is further compounded if management incentivisation is based on adjusted earnings rather than statutory earnings. Case study: IBM – statutory versus operating earnings IBM had a long track record of beating guided earnings, both quarterly and compared to its long-term roadmaps, which targeted growth over specific five-year periods. The first roadmap ended in 2010, with IBM consistently beating forecast EPS. When the company announced its 2010 results, IBM’s management also announced a new target for the next five years – achieving $20 of EPS in 2015. However, there was one change to the previous roadmap: the $20 would be ‘operating’ EPS, rather than statutory reported EPS. By mid-2014 IBM had beaten its guided earnings estimates for 31 quarters in a row. This was an astonishing performance considering how the vagaries of different economies, currencies and the timing of customer orders – which are all outside management’s control − can impact any single trading quarter. In October 2014, IBM shocked the market by missing earnings. In addition, it announced it would not make its roadmap target of $20 of operating EPS in 2015. The share price dropped by 35% over the next 18 months. Were there any accounting clues that could have warned investors that IBM’s run of exceeding management’s forecasts was coming to an end? One clue was that within three years of changing its roadmap target from statutory EPS to operating EPS, the adjusting items had grown from a negligible amount to just under $1.5 billion.  Management’s accounting policy choices can provide valuable insights and should not be overlooked Investors should understand that management teams often have considerable leeway in their choice of accounting policies and disclosures. These choices also give good insight into a company’s corporate culture. It is important to carefully evaluate non-statutory earnings numbers and incentives that drive management behaviour, as they are critical in determining accounting risk.  Mikhail Motala is an equity analyst and Kevin Cousins is head of research at PSG Asset Management.