The Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) has signalled its intention to begin reducing its overall exposure to the South African economy by beginning to invest more of its funds offshore. This was announced by the fund’s principal executive officer, Abel Sithole, at a joint presentation by the GEPF and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) held on Tuesday, which coincided with the release of the GEPF’s 2017 Annual Report. GEPF Snapshot as at March 31 2017 Active members  1.27 million Pensioners and beneficiaries 437 051 Investment portfolio 1.66 trillion Pension increase for 2017/18 6.6%  Source: GEPF “The fortunes of the fund are inextricably tied to that of the South African economy,” said Sithole during his presentation. This is supported by the fund’s strategic asset allocation, which shows that 89% of the GEPF’s assets as managed by the PIC are invested across asset classes in the local economy (see below). GEPF strategic asset allocation  Source: GEPF The exposure the fund has had to the country’s economy and financial markets has served it well. The JSE’s resilience in the aftermath of the global financial crisis and the bourse’s world-leading returns have allowed the fund – with the help of its attractive demographic mix – to stay overfunded and solvent since its inception.  But that has all begun to change as the JSE, in the face of a decelerating economy and heightened political risk, has traded sideways for the last three years. In the year to March 2017, the fund’s investments yielded an average return of 4.3% compared to 4% in 2016. That’s below inflation.  The fund began a review process in July of this year to re-evaluate its strategic asset allocation. “We have created a new asset and liability model to increase our exposure offshore. So we will begin to increase our exposure over time, but it will be measured,” said Sithole. Obviously, great care needs to be taken to begin this process, because as a defined benefit fund with a liability of some R1.4 trillion in South African rands, the volatility of our currency can wreck havoc with balancing the assets required to meet this liability. The policy is prudent given the increasing risks in the local economy and financial markets. Investing offshore provides avenues of diversification that will allow the fate of the members of the fund to not be exclusively tied to the whims of local politics and SA Inc as a whole. A balanced portfolio with exposure to a variety of industries, markets and economies is definitely warranted for a fund of this size.