South African venture capital firm, Knife Capital has secured its first European investment, investing R22 million into Stockholm-based Mobile and Sensory Technology (Most). The Cape Town-based firm is investing alongside Europe’s popular new age entrepreneurs; founders of British and Swedish games studio, King Digital Entertainment, creator of global sensation Candy Crush. King Digital Entertainment founders were early investors in Most, and have strengthened their position in this latest round. The investment was facilitated through Knife Capital’s new London office by director Bob Skinstad, who will also join Most’s board with King Digital co-founder Lars Markgren. Skinstad who also heads the business development function for Knife Capital in London said in a statement that they are pleased and excited about the partnership. “We are excited to partner with an accomplished team and credible co-investors in this technology-rich Internet of things (IoT) start-up that already has a proven product.” Most is most popular for its sensor-technology innovations which have impactful applications in the rapidly expanding IoT sector. Its breakthrough product is a sensor, which monitors and transmits real-time information on humidity, light, positioning, shock and temperature within containers used to transport sensitive products. Most CEO Jon Hjertenstein said the product is leading the market in functionality and performance. “Through our services, we offer our clients the opportunity to act proactively instead of reactively. The market has shown great interest in our product and we currently serve clients in five different continents,” he said. Most will invest the fresh capital into further global expansion, including penetrating the South African market. Hjertenstein said Most’s latest investment round enables them to expand more rapidly into their prioritised markets like Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the US. Skinstad added that Knife Capital will assist Most in expanding into key markets where they [Knife Capital] already have strong networks.