In the battle to fill their seats with high fliers, the world’s top airlines are rolling out evermore luxurious options for top-tier travelers. Singapore Airlines on Thursday unveiled its first major overhaul of cabins in its double-decker Airbus A380, with an emphasis on space – and double beds.  Wardrobes, luxury bedding and bathrooms are blurring the lines between flying and the five-star hotel experience for passengers occupying suites. Even business class passengers will be able to snuggle up with a loved one, with double bed conversions available in the middle aisle. Passengers traveling on the Singapore-Sydney routes from December 18 will be the first to experience the luxury upgrades. Here’s what they can expect: A hotel room in the sky Singapore Airlines’s A380 suitePhotographer: Nicky Loh/Bloomberg With the number of suites pruned to six from 12 for the most premier of customers, there’s space to fit in an actual flat bed, alongside a separate seat with leather upholstery by Italy’s Poltrona Frau. The beds in the first two suites of each aisle can even be made into a double bed for couples traveling together. There’s plush bedding and a fluffy duvet with embroidery by French luxury label Lalique. Suites also have a full-sized wardrobe and two bathrooms, one of which has a sit-down vanity counter. Unlike on rival carrier Etihad Airways, there won’t be a shower though. Singapore Air says its cabin changes were based on customer feedback seeking more private space and a design with convenience in mind, such as having phones and glasses within easy reach. Hence the added touches like customized handbag stowage and an amenity box.   A stewardess poses with the full size wardrobe of the premium suite during a media launch of new Singapore Airlines cabin products in Singapore, on Thurs, Nov. 2, 2017. Photographer: Nicky Loh/Bloomberg The 78 Business class seats, each 25 inches wide, are upholstered by the same Italian firm. These recline directly into a full-flat bed of 78 inches, and the center divider can be fully lowered to form double beds. Business class passenger seats, reclined in a full-flat bed configuration.Photographer: Nicky Loh/Bloomberg Relax, and be entertained Passengers in suites will get a bigger screen — 32 inches in full HD, versus 23 inches previously — that can be angled differently for viewing in seat and bed modes. The leather chair in their room-in-the-sky can also swivel and recline flexibly. A stewardess poses the 32 inch TV screen with Krisworld inside the premium suite during a media launch of new Singapore Airlines cabin products in Singapore, on Thurs, Nov. 2, 2017. Photographer: Nicky Loh/Bloomberg Business class customers get an 18-inch screen, size unchanged from before. They’ll have a panel with USB ports, reading light with adjustable brightness. There’s more storage to keep personal items within easy reach too. Eat, eat, eat If you are flying suite, dinner is served on Wedgwood ware and drinks in Lalique-designed crystal glassware. Singapore Air also promises to use more sustainable ingredients and fresh local produce. New menus will be introduced to those customers on select routes first and progressively rolled out to other cabin classes. Business class passengers will have their meals served on Narumi-designed chinaware.   A Business class in-flight meal sit on Narumi-designed chinaware. Source: Singapore Airlines Ltd. A personal touch Suites get amenity kits created in partnership with Lalique. In addition to common items, ladies get a facial moisturizer and hand cream, while men get an aftershave balm and body lotion. Some kits even have collectibles like a Lalique ornamental fish. Lalique products are displayed during a media launch of new Singapore Airlines cabin products in Singapore, on Thurs, Nov. 2, 2017. Photographer: Nicky Loh/Bloomberg or relaxation, passengers will have greater control with an in-flight entertainment system that can save their preferences and playlists for subsequent flights. Members of its Krisflyer program, plus suites and business-class passengers, will also have more entertainment options. There’s wifi onboard as well. In suites, you can even save your lighting preferences for future trips. The flag carrier is spending $850 million on the overhaul across 19 of the superjumbos, including 14 currently in its fleet. The five new planes will be progressively delivered starting next month. © 2017 Bloomberg