BankservAfrica’s latest disposable salary index shows a 0.5% increase in pay cheques to employees in the formal sector, after a 1.6% decline in September, while pensions reached a new high. The index measures salary growth in South Africa, according to monthly salaries processed by the BankservAfrica payment system. It is a measure of real take-home pay. Mike Schüssler, chief economist at economists.co.za, said the increase shown in October’s index beats inflation rates and is an improvement following September’s decline. He said September may have been an anomaly, as far as salaries are concerned, but October’s increase indicates that salaries are on track and have reached normality.   “We are still recovering in real terms from last year. In 2016 our real salaries in today’s money was over R14 100,” he said. This year, the BDSI salary is R13 990, which is R16 less than September but R62 more than October. In nominal terms, the BDSI recorded an average of R14 499. “For more than a year people saw salary declines in real terms, and they are still recovering from that,” he said. Pensions consistently beat inflation Despite slow growth, Schüssler said the 0.5% increase beats the current inflation rate. However, overcoming inflation is more of a good sign for pensioners rather than for people with salaries. “The main thing is that those with jobs have overall beat inflation in the last few months. Pensioners have beaten inflation in maybe three or four years,” he explained.   The BankservAfrica Private Pension Index (BPPI) measures a monthly time series of private pension income payments. The BPPI showed that pensions paid increased by 31.3% in September while the total amount increased by 38.6% before any smoothing and calculations. The size of the extra payments to pensioners in October this year was a nominal R1.6 billion compared to the same time last year. According to Schüssler, this represents the biggest extra payment amount since April 2015. “In real terms, the value of the total pension pay-out was the highest on record and will probably make a substantial difference to retail sales if it has not already,” he said. Real pensions averaged R6 457 for the month and R6 859 in nominal terms. For the first time on record, aggregate pensions were 13.5% of salaries paid. Since interest rates do play an important role in the performance of pension payments, Schüssler said the average pension had good and consistent performance over the last few years, especially in comparison to salary growth.   “Pension so far has met my expectations of growing better than the rate of inflation,” he said. Potential risks to salaries After the turnaround figure that September brought, Schüssler said he suspects that there will be slow growth in real time salaries in November and December, but March and April next year might bring with it testing times. He anticipates only a 0% to 1% real growth in salaries. “Next year, from April onwards, one can expect slower salary rises, and if inflation rates rises – depending on where the rand goes with possible downgrades, early in the year – we could see shrinking salaries, but at the moment, we’ve got slow increases in real salaries and we’ve got reasonable increases in pensions,” he said. A tax hike, however, could be a game-changer when it comes to salaries and pensions. As tax is deducted after, either the disposable or take-home pay, or after pension fund, and very often after medical aid.
However, Schüssler said for pension, tax rates are different. Two other factors to be concerned about are personal tax increases and minimal movement in the tax bracket. “I would be very worried about a personal tax increase and little movement in the tax bracket. If inflation picks up, that would make all the difference. With the economy under pressure, salaries may not go up quite as much as before.”