When the market closed on June 15 2017, the FTSE/JSE All Share Index (Alsi) had shown a 0% gain year to date. Even going back three years to the the middle of 2014, the market showed the same 0% gain. From that low point, however, the JSE has suddenly come to life. Over the next 124 trading days, the Alsi gained over 18%, and on Monday it passed 60 000 for the first time in its history. It has been a sudden turnaround for a market that has been in the doldrums for so long. Until the break out at the start of August, the market had been moving in a sideways band between 47 000 and 55 000 for 40 months. It’s also remarkable that in the midst of this surge, September was actually a negative month. The Alsi fell 0.9% in September, between the bumper months experienced in July, August and October. It’s true that a lot of this momentum has been due to Naspers. The company’s stock is up over 40% since the middle of June, and that accounts for a large chunk of the index gains. However, since most investors will have some exposure to the counter given its relative size in the market, the benefit has been widely felt. The other big gainers have been mining stocks as a number of commodity prices have risen sharply. Over the past five months Anglo American is up over 60%, Glencore has gained 48%, and BHP is 41% higher. Unit trust performance The impact this has had on local unit trusts has been marked. Over the past few months some equity funds have shown spectacular gains that have begun to offset some of the disappointing performance of the past few years. Two examples bear this out. To the end of June, the Coronation Top 20 Fund showed a three-year annualised performance of just 2.6%. After a few stellar months, however, the fund now shows a far more respectable three year annualised figure 9.49%. Similarly, the Kagiso Equity Alpha Fund had a three-year annualised return of just 2.7% to the end of June. It is now showing a three-year annualised performance of 8.4%. While these three-year numbers are still below the longer-term trends of between 12% and 13% from top equity funds, they are far better than they were just a few months ago. For the first time in a long time, equity funds are showing inflation-beating returns for investors over a three-year period. Lessons for investors These numbers reveal two important investment lessons. The first is that investors need to be patient. Equity markets move in unpredictable ways, but over time they always go up. To gain from this good, however, you have to be prepared to stomach the bad. “Returns are lumpy,” Dave Mohr and Izak Odendaal from Old Mutual Multi-Managers pointed out in an investment note this week. “While the JSE is up strongly for the year, February (-3.1%), May (-0.4%), June (-3.5%) and September (-0.9%) were negative months. You have to sit through the negative months to benefit from months like October and July (+7%). “Missing out on such strong short-term rallies can substantially reduce long-term returns from equities,” they add. “Over time, the market trends up and there are more positive than negative months, but trying to time the market successfully and consistently is not possible.” The second lesson is that market rallies can sometimes be so sharp and unexpected, that there is no way to see them coming. “Most investors sitting on the side lines wait for ‘the dust to settle’ before getting back into the market,” Mohr and Odendaal noted. “However, the JSE surged from July onwards despite there being little meaningful improvement in the political and economic situation in South Africa. October’s rally came despite a gloomy Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement that could very well lead to further credit ratings downgrades. This is because the global backdrop matters more for the JSE than local developments, despite the fact that local investors often obsess about the latter. By the time the dust has settled, the market has already priced in the new reality and investors would have missed out.”