The Gathering, organised by the Daily Maverick and sponsored by Nandos, kicked off in fine form with John Vlismas as facilitator. The first question of the day, “how did we get here?”, was dissected by Mavuso Msimang, Dr Makhosi Khoza, and Zapiro. Msimang said that the ANC did not take the trouble to understand that power should have a code of conduct that worked whether the ANC was in power or not. “We are here because of the manner in which the ANC elects its leaders is so faulty – it is an ancient system that worked when power wasn’t a factor.” The system produced people who should never have been leaders, for example people who had committed a criminal act, and it should have been overhauled. Dr Khoza said that we must start calling each other South Africans. She reminded us that there is no dignity in unemployment, and that we must unite as South Africans. South Africa needs good leaders who can leverage on moments of unity. South Africa is a small economy operating within a capitalist system, and the capitalist model for South Africa must be reconfigured, embracing Ubuntu, compassion and integration. Zapiro said that we must take State Capture seriously. On being asked if the ANC was following a socialist agenda, Zapiro replied that empowering a few elites is not socialism. The former finance minister of Zimbabwe, Tendai Biti, spoke of the recent tumultuous events in Zimbabwe, that of the coup that was not a coup. He is of the view that Zimbabwe is in a dangerous situation, people versus tanks. This makes it difficult to ensure a sustainable state. His talk was not without humorous allegories, saying that in Africa we cannot pass the baton stick, and that there has never been a champion African 4x200m relay team. He asserted that Zimbabwe’s reintegration with the international community is key. Evita Bezuidenhout’s appearance was peppered with fine wit: “Luthuli House is the only active power house that the ANC has managed to build in 20 years”. She warned that freedom is the lightest feather that will blow away at the first hint of a breeze. Mmusi Maimane said that if we truly want to draw the next metaphor we must look north towards Zimbabwe, and that populist rhetoric will put us in the same situation as Venezuela. Youth must be taught the skills to deal with a technological future, and South Africa must build an economy that can absorb the youth. We must think of the South African economy in 3D: de-concentrate, de-monopolise, and de-regulate. He is of the view that a minimum sentence of 15 years should be introduced for those guilty of corruption. He was put under pressure with accusations that the DA is a white party, and he countered by arguing that the DA is building a diverse party, and that it is essential to build up the supply side. He is of the view that a liberation movement that represents one race has abandoned the notion of a diverse society. Andrew Feinstein thanked the Daily Maverick for playing a crucial role in exposing corruption. He said that after 1994 SA adopted the tawdry global norms of politics, and pointed a finger at the enablers of corruption – the financial institutions, lawyers, accountants, and advisers. The nuclear deal will make the arms deal look like small change, both in scale and corrosive impact. A surprise break in the intense presentations and discussion was a brilliant rap and musical performance by Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh, an author, musician and activist. The next discussion, on the future of South Africa, was held by Bantu Holomisa, Nomboniso Gasa and Sipho Pityana. Holomisa said that all the ANC presidential candidates have previously defended Zuma. If Zuma isn’t removed, the situation will be worse. But this will also help the other political parties. Holomisa said that there are plans to arrange a national convention early in 2018. Gasa said that South Africans should imagine the kind of society that they want, with or without Zuma, and that to undo the worm of connections making up State Capture will take time. She is of the firm view that the guilty must stand trial and go to prison. There is a level of arrogance that has developed, resulting in the inability to humanise or emphasise. Pityana said that if you put a sugar coating on the rotten cake, it will still be a rotten cake. Pitiyana is of the view that the money that has left the country under State Capture must come back, and that those who are responsible should be jailed. The participants in discussion of the biggest threats facing South Africa, Mzwanele Manyi (owner of ANN7 and ‘The New Age’), Dr Iraj Abedian (CEO Pan-African Investment and Research Services) and Jacques Pauw (author of The President’s Keepers), was fairly animated, with Abedian frequently tapping Manyi on the arm with the admonishment to stick to the facts. Abedian warned of the undermining of the economy over the last eight years, and that what can be destroyed in a short period can take decades to rebuild. He stressed that fundamental social values have been destroyed in the name of profit making. He urged South Africans to stop looking back, and to start looking forward. He also spoke of the “hollowing out” of state-owned entities. Pauw warned of institutions that are in complete disarray and will have to be rebuilt. Pravin Gordhan was given a standing ovation as he entered. He gave tribute to the Portfolio Committee for doing great work, and said that they have created national interest and enthusiasm. South Africa needs new leadership, and a greater unity of purpose. Job creation should not be used as a slogan. Inequality is a global problem, and is not sustainable. He challenged us all to change our mindsets, and become active participants in finding solutions. Julius Malema said that the masses have the right to decide what type of government they want, and he reminded us that the masses do not select the president. The poor are still subject to difficult conditions. In speaking of banks, he said “what is the point of having them if we cannot eat their food, and that we can only smell them”. He spoke of the necessity of economic freedom, and that the poor cannot forever be in debt. Time and space is very important, and the EFF does not want to take power through the back door. Nor should people vote for the EFF because they are angry with the ANC. The EFF does not want to be the “rebound boyfriend”, voters must “love you for who you are”. He is of the view that the failure to defeat the ANC is because of the inability to grow the organisation to reach all corners of the country. The EFF is concentrating on introducing its brand, and becoming a household name.