Zimbabwe’s newly inaugurated president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said democratic elections will be held on time next year and pledged to lead the revival of the economically distressed southern African nation. “We dare not squander this moment,” Mnangagwa, 75, told supporters at the 68 000-seat national sports stadium in Harare, the capital. “I have to hit the ground running.” Zimbabwe, Emmerson Mnangagwa,  Mnangagwa, who replaced Robert Mugabe after he resigned on Tuesday to end 37 years in power, spoke about the need to revive an economy in free-fall, with a 90% jobless rate and a severe cash shortage and crumbling public infrastructure. He vowed to clamp down on corruption and pledged to put the southern African nation back to work. “We put a premium on creating jobs, jobs, more jobs,” he said. “We welcome mutually gainful partnerships with international investors. The bottom line is we need an economy that’s back on its feet.” Mnangagwa was Mugabe’s right-hand man for half a century through the liberation war against white-ruled Rhodesia and since independence in 1980 until their rupture in recent months. He described the former president as “my mentor, my father, my leader.” Mugabe at home Mugabe and his wife, Grace, are currently at their Blue Roof mansion in the suburbs of Harare, according to an official close to the former president who asked not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media. Mnangagwa’s administration won’t prosecute Mugabe or his family and they are free to remain in the country, according to the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front. “His major challenge will be creating an investment climate and efficiency in government, but he made no real mention of strengthening and rooting democracy,” said David Coltart, an opposition senator. “I suspect he’ll establish a Chinese-style of governance.” Mnangagwa came to power after a tumultuous three weeks that started with his firing by Mugabe on Nov. 6 following accusations by Grace Mugabe that the former spy chief was plotting a coup. An intervention by the armed forces and a decision by Zanu-PF to back Mnangagwa as its leader and to begin impeachment proceedings against Mugabe prompted the president to resign. “We must accept that our challenges emanate in part from the way we’ve managed our politics, both nationally and internationally,” Mnangagwa said. Mnangagwa urged western nations that have imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe to reconsider their measures and said his government was committed to compensating farmers whose land was taken under a Mugabe-backed expropriation program. “For the time that I shall be president, I solemnly promise that I’ll do my best to serve everyone, everyone who calls and considers Zimbabwe their home,” he said. © 2017 Bloomberg