The rand slipped to a one-year low on Friday as fears of a ratings downgrade resurfaced on reports President Jacob Zuma is preparing to introduce free tertiary education, which would put added pressure on public finances. Stocks were weaker as fixed-line operator Telkom weighed. The rand was 0.58% weaker against the dollar at 14.32 as of 1540 GMT, after earlier being down more than 1% to a session low of 14.42 – a level last hit on November 21 last year. Philip Pearce, a currency dealer at TreasuryOne, said traders were betting that the rumours about higher education spending – as reported in South African newspapers this week – were true. “If free education goes through the market thinks ratings agencies will definitely downgrade South Africa,” he said. South Africa’s government was considering a range of budget cuts that could include slashing social grants for the most vulnerable in order to pay for free tertiary education, a newspaper reported on Friday. South Africa is staring down the barrel of ratings downgrades after the Treasury last month widened budget deficit estimates and lowered this year’s economic growth forecast. S&P and Moody’s are scheduled to review South Africa on November 24. Government bonds also weakened, with the yield for the benchmark paper rising 6 basis points to 9.355%. On the stock market, the benchmark Top 40 Index retreated 0.2% to 53 424 points, while the broader All Share index slid 0.1% to 59 776 points. Telkom reported a drop in half-year profits and cut its dividend as a result of reduced spending by corporate and government customers, sending its share price sharply lower. Shares in Telkom, in which the state owns a stake of around 40%, were down 6.4% at R50.50. Read: Profits fall at Telkom on lower customer spending ArcelorMittal South Africa was the biggest loser on the bourse after it flagged lower steel demand in the current quarter as it updated the market on its performance in the three months to end-September. The steelmaker’s shares fell 8.9% at R5.97. 