It is very unlikely that government will increase the corporate income tax rate as it looks to implement an estimated R30 billion of tax hikes next year. Kyle Mandy, tax policy leader at PwC South Africa, says corporate income tax is not something National Treasury regards as a priority tax for raising revenues as it is the most economically damaging of all the taxes. “In a low-growth environment, to go and increase corporate income taxes is going to do more harm potentially than good,” he says. South Africa’s corporate income tax rate of 28% is relatively high compared to the global average of roughly 25%. Internationally, the current trend is to reduce company taxes, he adds. “In that sense it is very difficult to see Treasury even suggesting that corporate income taxes should be increased.” Ease of paying taxes According to The World Bank and PwC’s Paying Taxes 2018 report, which examines the ease of paying taxes in 189 countries by comparing the tax cost and administrative burden for a medium-sized business, South Africa compares relatively well to other countries with an overall 46th position in the rankings. It improved one place from 2017 after changes to the methodology last year. While South Africa’s total tax and contribution rate of 28.9% (including profit taxes of 21.7%, property taxes of 2.8% and various payroll taxes) compares favourably with global (40.5%) and regional averages, the country has a relatively high rate of profit tax, well above the global (16.3%) and African averages (18.3%).   It took the local case study company 210 hours on average to comply with filing tax returns and paying taxes compared to 240 hours globally and 285 hours in Africa. Yet, South Africa ranks relatively poorly in 99th position overall. Mandy says there is definitely room to improve. Locally, the vast bulk of time is spent on the preparation phase of compliance – 152 out of 210 hours. “Particularly bad insofar as that is concerned is corporate income tax, where 80 hours are spent simply preparing to actually file the return. The time spent on corporate income tax is actually well above the global averages.” This is at least partly the result of the complexity involved, particularly where accounting records deviate from tax requirements. Mandy says South African taxpayers also tend to be pretty thorough in preparing tax returns and schedules and ensuring they claim deductions where appropriate, while some other countries might have a looser approach to compliance. While the study suggests that South Africa also performs relatively poorly with regard to VAT refunds with an average time of 26.6 weeks, PwC’s internal data for similar companies show that the average VAT refund is paid within 12.3 weeks. Although three months is still quite long, it is a lot shorter than the survey result. Mandy says this is a perception issue and the South African Revenue Service (Sars) has some work to do to change the perception that it effectively takes six months to get a VAT refund on average, when the reality is somewhat less than that. The Tax Ombud’s recent report, which found that Sars unduly delayed refunds in certain instances, will go a long way towards improving the situation, although it is still early days, he says. “You get the sense that there is already some improvement, but that is completely anecdotal. Sars, certainly in the wake of that report, has at least been attempting to pay out refunds quicker than what they were doing – at least on the VAT side. We will have to wait and see if anything changes in next year’s survey [which covers the 2017 calendar year].”