Over the last decade, South African investors have shown a clear preference for multi-asset, or balanced unit trusts. Over this period, the assets invested in these funds have shot up from R136 million to R916 million. This is because investors have seen the benefits of diversified portfolios that are able to generate good returns, but with lower volatility than pure equity funds. At the same time, many financial advisors have elected to hand difficult asset allocation decisions over to professional fund managers rather than try to do this themselves. There is, however, a complication. Investors and financial advisors have recognised that it is not only important to diversify across asset classes, but between fund managers as well. Many people have therefore built portfolios that include three or four different balanced funds. The question is whether this is optimal. If you take four different balanced funds and mix them together, you may think you are diversifying, but you could actually be cancelling out the benefit of having professional fund managers handle your asset allocation. This is because individual balanced funds can look very different. A survey of the ten largest multi-asset high-equity funds in South Africa bears this out. The table below shows the range of asset allocations between these funds at the end of September. Variation in the asset allocations of SA multi-asset high-equity funds SA equity Foreign equity SA property Foreign property SA bonds Foreign bonds SA cash Foreign cash Highest 46.7% 28.9% 13.3% 5.0% 24.8% 2.8% 17.5% 4.0% Lowest 31.2% 16.1% 0.9% 0.0% 7.4% 0.0% 3.5% 0.1% Mean 39.6% 23.1% 5.7% 1.0% 13.6% 0.8% 11.6% 1.4% Source: Fund fact sheets It is clear that in every asset class there is a wide difference between the fund with the largest allocation, and that with the smallest. There is sometimes even a large divergence between the average and either or both extremes. Local listed property and cash holdings are the best illustrations of this. There is a material difference between a fund that holds over a sixth of its portfolio in cash, and one that holds less than 4%. One can expect this to have a significant impact on the performance of these two funds. If you simply blended these funds together, however, you would be taking away the opportunity to benefit from either manager’s asset allocation view. And, over time, this is actually the major driver of investment returns. “Asset allocation, rather than manager selection, is, in our view, the biggest driver in achieving return objectives,” says Roland Gräbe, head of tailored fund portfolios at Old Mutual Wealth. What this suggests is that investors looking for diversified exposure might be better off investing not across a range of different balanced funds, but with a single asset allocation specialist. This is where funds of funds come into their own. Over the last few years a number of extremely good fund of funds managers have emerged in South Africa, and their products have been getting more and more recognition. In the past, fund of funds managers were criticised for being too expensive, but that is also no longer the case with many of the newer firms offering lower fees than their single manager counterparts. The first benefit of investing in a fund of funds are that the manager’s starting point is asset allocation. The positioning of the portfolio is paramount, and the investor knows that this will be clearly expressed. Secondly, a fund of funds manager then has the ability to select the best, or most appropriate managers within each asset class. It is extremely rare, if not impossible, for any fund manager to be equally good at managing local equities, foreign equities, bonds and property. The fund of funds manager, however, has the advantage of being able to identify and select which managers are best in each field. Ultimately this means that the investor gets the benefit of diversification across both asset classes and managers, within a single fund. They will also have the advantage of having a single asset allocation view and the ability to assess how that works over time, rather than having this blurred by the competing approaches of different multi-asset fund managers.