The South African Reserve Bank can provide support for the economy even as it remains focused on inflation, Governor Lesetja Kganyago said. While inflation risks remain tilted to the upside, the central bank has to consider South Africa’s challenging economic environment in setting policy, Kganyago said in a printed copy of a speech delivered to investors in New York on Thursday. There is scope for “counter-cyclical stimulus,” he said. Read more from the conference: We must tell the story in its full reality – Nicky Newton-King “We have to take cognizance of the growth outlook and provide whatever support we can,” Kganyago said. “We therefore aim for a policy stance that balances short-term growth support with long-term disinflation, and all its accompanying benefits.”  The rand extended a decline after Kganyago’s comments, weakening as much as 1.2% against the dollar before trading 0.69% down at 14.25 per dollar by 00:50am in Johannesburg. The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee unexpectedly cut its key rate in July after the economy had fallen into a recession. In September, the MPC held rates unchanged even though inflation was within the 3% to 6% target band. The rand’s depreciation since then vindicated the decision as it showed risks had not been fully priced in by asset markets, Kganyago said. “At times of heightened uncertainty, monetary policy becomes highly data-dependent and also more sensitive to our assessment of the risks to the forecast,” Kganyago said. “It should have been reasonably clear to observers that monetary policy was not on a predetermined course.” The rand’s exchange rate remains the single biggest risk to the inflation outlook while supply-side pressures, such as a probable electricity tariff increase, are also concerning, Kganyago said. The central bank would not automatically react to first-round effects of a tariff increase, but would assess second-round effects, he said. “The SARB will continue to focus on its constitutional mandate to pursue price stability,” Kganyago said. “This is the best contribution we can make to the economy because it creates the conditions for long-term investment decisions that generate jobs. However, this will be done within a flexible inflation-targeting framework, always mindful of the trade-offs and the impact we may have on growth in the short run. This balancing is important.” © 2017 Bloomberg