South Africa’s banking industry is undergoing fundamental changes with non-traditional players increasingly exploring opportunities to challenge the big four banks. A new report by PwC suggests the recent growth of unexpected players is turning the banking industry into a ‘marketplace without boundaries’. Jorge Camarate, a partner at PwC South Africa, explained that technology is lowering the barriers to entry and resulting in more non-traditional players being able to provide their customers with in-house banking solutions. He said the convergence of technology – both fintech and non-fintech – is making banking cheaper and enabling non-traditional players to rollout banking solutions fairly quickly. While the barriers to entry may be lowered new entrants are still subject to the same capital requirements and regulations, some of which have been described as onerous and burdensome by industry insiders. “New entrants are focusing on a far more simple set of products – admittedly the regulations still apply – and there’s a focus on making the management of the business as simple as possible,” he said adding that regulators show a desire to promote competition in the banking sector. New companies, such as insurers and retailers, entering the sector are doing so by leveraging off their existing customer bases and footprints to offer cost-effective banking solutions. Such established networks are, in part, putting new entrants with an already established track record at an advantage. “Banking is a business of trust especially when, as consumers, it comes with dealing with your own hard-earned money. New entrants like Discovery already have a trust factor and some of the other companies looking to enter the market can also benefit from strong brands.” According to Camarate, as more entrants enter the market effective and efficient execution will be the single factor that sets banks apart and will be a major determinant of market share. A large part of the incumbents well-established businesses such as corporate and investment banking will prove hard to regulate, however the simpler units such as retail and small business banking are likely to be affected by the new entrants, he said.  “New entrants have, in theory, an advantage as they can make use of new technology and digital platforms, don’t have legacy systems and don’t have expensive, extensive branch networks. This should allow them to roll out more cost-effective products and they should be able to compete on margin due to a lower cost base.” He said incumbents can protect their market share by lowering costs as well as using existing data more effectively to become more relevant by demonstrating and adding value to their clients.