As expected, cash-strapped Taste Holdings will look to its long-suffering shareholders to initiate another capital raise to reduce its smothering debt load and fund the rollout of cash-guzzling Starbucks and Domino’s Pizza outlets. Taste, the holder of local rights to both iconic global brands, announced plans on Thursday to raise R398 million in fresh capital, which is larger than its market capitalisation of R353 million at the time of writing. The fast food specialist has become a serial capital raiser and if the latest rights issue is supported by shareholders, it means that Taste has raised nearly R1 billion through share-for-cash placements and rights issues in three years. Taste’s financial position is precarious; it faces a bloated debt load of R255 million that exceeds its cash on hand of R86.1 million in the six months to August 2017 and widening losses of R66 million. An oversubscribed rights issue will see Taste pay off its long-term debt and the remaining proceeds will help roll out a further 12 Starbucks and Domino’s outlets in 2018. It costs approximately R6 million to open a Starbucks outlet, with the biggest costs being IT systems, establishing supply chain networks, employee costs, and store infrastructure, compared with R1.8 million for Domino’s. Taste CEO Carlo Gonzaga believes in the strategy of backing global brands, which he expects to be the growth vector. Taste might breakeven in the next 18 months but this hinges on the state of consumer spending. The rights issue, which is fully underwritten by hedge fund Riskowitz Value Fund that is managed by Riskowitz Capital, has been pitched at 90 cents per share, an 18% premium to the 75 cents that Taste shares finished on Thursday. Shareholder support Even if existing Taste shareholders do not support the rights issue, Riskowitz will support it. Jean Pierre Verster, portfolio manager at Fairtree Capital, said shareholder support is inevitable. “The rights issue will happen because if shareholders don’t vote in support of it they would be cutting their own throats. The question is how many shareholders would participate at 90 cents per share at a current price of 70-odd cents,” said Verster. Taste said more than 30% of its current shares in issue (459 million shares) would be issued as new shares. This requires 75% shareholder approval as the company might double the number of shares in issue. The latest rights issue is Taste’s last resort to free up cash after it failed to sell its luxury jewellery business, comprising Arthur Kaplan, World’s Finest Watches, and NWJ, in which the proceeds would fund the Starbucks and Domino’s expansion. Read: Taste said to delay luxury unit sale as buyers balk at price The big question is whether the latest rights issue would give Taste the firepower it needs to turn its fortunes around. Verster said with the support of anchor shareholders like the Riskowitz Value Fund, which probably believes in Taste’s long-term business strategy, the company has a shot of survival. “It’s a case of the more the anchor shareholder puts in, the more the anchor shareholder has a vested interest in ensuring that the business is successful,” he said. “Taste might be in a much healthier financial position with the support of Riskowitz.” Riskowitz, which is headed by Sean Riskowitz, who is the CEO of small JSE-listed financial services firm Conduit Capital, is a long-term shareholder in nature. “Sean is taking a long-term view of Taste being successful even though it needs more capital than what was initially anticipated. Taste will be successful and there is no reason to think that things are coming to an end for it,” said Verster. Hours after Taste announced its rights issue, Conduit Capital said it plans to raise R350 million through a rights issue that would be also be underwritten by the Riskowitz Value Fund. Wayne McCurrie, the senior portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments, is cautious about Taste. “I’m generally wary of any company that makes massive acquisition and cash flow decisions. I’m cautious of companies that go into heavy capital intensive acquisitions that are so big in relation to the starting base or size. I prefer to sit back and wait regarding Taste.”