Financial advisors and high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) have a new way of accessing global markets through an open architecture online platform providing access to a wide array of funds, shares and investment structures. David Noon, business development and sales manager for Capital International Group (CIG) South Africa reports that, “As exchange controls dropped, HNWIs in South Africa have realised that their onshore and offshore balance sheets are not aligned”. Noon, a former international investment banker, saw firsthand the impact of the 2008 global financial crisis on local investment portfolios, telling Moneyweb, “I’ve walked the path of many of the financial advisors and I understand the intricacies of South Africans trying to manage their money in a global context”. Despite the attractiveness of offshore markets, one of the inhibitors has been a perceived level of bureaucracy, which discouraged people from making more informed decisions about where to position their assets. “I believe we have two strengths in this regard,” states Noon. “Firstly, it’s important to have a physical presence on the ground in South Africa, which we do have here in Cape Town. Secondly, we have always had a strong administration background, meaning that we can make it easier for financial advisors to spend more time providing advice to their clients.” In a complicated market, what’s interesting? Investment managers across the globe are trying to make sense of markets, of which face an array of challenges including lofty technology stock valuations, Brexit, a Chinese market that regulators are desperately trying to cool, and a number of geopolitical hotspots across the globe. Scott Campbell, managing director and chief investment officer for MitonOptimal – one of the advisory firms working with CIG – says that while HNWIs have historically been good at accessing offshore markets, the last six to nine months have seen an increase in the number of enquiries around where assets are domiciled. When asked where they are seeing opportunities in the global markets, Campbell answered that they are primarily focused on Japan, South East Asia and India. “India is not cheap at the moment but there is a big macro [economic] story playing out there with a big population and you have Modi cracking down on corruption.” With Japanese stocks also having risen quite dramatically, this seems an interesting proposition, but Campbell further points out that many of the stocks were particularly cheap and businesses were making use of share buy-backs to boost investor returns. Property remains a favoured asset class for South Africans, but Campbell says that the US and European commercial property are fully priced. However, he believes that there may be some opportunity in the UK property sector post-Brexit. Currency strategies for South Africans    With the rand proving to be incredibly volatile and downgrades hitting South Africa, financial advisors and HNWIs are having to spend a significant amount of time considering the impact of the currency on their portfolios. “Historically, South Africans have always been currency conscious,” points out Noon, who also discusses the fact that many advisors and investors are now adopting a three-currency strategy. Such a strategy would typically see them trying to convert the money they are earning in rand and moving it into a hard currency like the US dollar. They would then diversify this further to include a third currency such as the euro or pound sterling to give them the ability to transact across the global markets. However, this comes with its own set of challenges; the US dollar has been under significant pressure; the pound has faced headwinds from Brexit; and the euro has faced a degree of disruption due to geopolitical events. Noon comments, “It’s challenging, because there is not a place where you can hang your hat at the moment, so it is important to have flexibility and the ability to interact in a variety of currencies.” Flexibility, speed and the ability to execute offshore
 2017 has been a watershed year for many South Africans, as they have seen their portfolios impacted heavily by the threat of a sovereign downgrade and the heavy concentration of a handful of stocks dictating investment performance. The ability to access international markets and a diverse range of funds could have had a significant impact on your investment performance. Being entirely South African-focused may have increased your risk profile. “As a financial advisor or HNWI, you want to be able to respond rapidly to changing markets, and be able to invest in multiple currencies in a diverse investment universe, and these are some of the things that I believe we will deliver,” concludes Noon. The regulated activates within Capital International Group are provided by its member companies, all licensed by the Financial Services Authority in the Isle Of Man and the Financial Services Board in South Africa. For further information please visit www.capital-iom.com. Brought to you by Capital International.