South Africa’s latest crime statistics have revealed an increase in murders, robberies and car hijackings. With the changing nature of crime, police forces must evolve their methods of dealing with criminal behaviour. Accenture MD Melusi Maposa said that since technology is enabling more criminal behaviour and activity, police forces must work and adapt their policing methods to the changing nature of crime. He said that technology has allowed criminals easier and cheaper access to vast amounts of information, which means they are no longer required to physically perform a bank robbery, for instance. “If one can scheme details off a bank account or the bank’s system, one can execute an equivalent of a bank robbery,” he said.   Technology has made getting data easier, but it has also meant that it is easier for someone to move around and access illegal data, which would have otherwise been acquired from many institutions using more labour, time and money. It’s easier to perform crimes with access to technology, Maposa said, it just requires a different skillset compared to physically executing a robbery.   The police therefore needs to adapt to the changing nature of crime, in both the physical and digital domains. Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula said that while the release of crime statistics was a way for police to account, it must lead to innovative methods to fighting crime, such as “smart policing”. A different set of skills is then required because, according to Maposa, physically investigating a crime doesn’t translate as well into the digital world.  “Solutions need to be proactive, responsive, fast,” he added. The best technological solutions should include those that look at prediction, prevention and protection. Drones can assist with public safety as they monitors places where there is no physical infrastructure. “Using an advanced analytic algorithm, it allows an element of prediction (of behaviour or event), then you can prevent it, but if you can’t prevent it then at least you can react faster to them,” he said. Murder rates, according to the crime stats report, have increased by 1.8% from 18 673  last year to 19 016 murders this year. Robbery with aggravating circumstances, went up by 6.4% – from 132 527 reported cases last year to 140 956 cases this year – and carjacking rose by 14.5% during the period under review. Maposa says that designing smart cities with the resources already available will enhance public safety.   “With data, you can then think about organisational agility, and this speaks to how public safety adapts to a new space.” Installing digital cameras or drones in strategic places or streetlights for example, to regularly scan, record and monitor activity can result in faster response rates, and better presence. “The right technology deployed properly could improve the capability of dealing with crime in general,” he said. “It’s not a big project to implement but rather how you harness what is already in the country. The challenge however is that we don’t have an integrated ecosystem,” he added.  South Africa’s National Development Plan (NDP) underlines the need for greater safety and security through an effective criminal justice system and responsive police services. According to the 2017 budget review, the consolidated three-year budget for the defence, public order and safety function group, will grow from R190 billion in 2016/17 to R225 billion in 2019/20, an average annual rate of 5.8%. Defence, public order and safety accounts for 14.2% of total expenditure. Spending will focus on fighting transnational crimes, improving policing, peace support operations and military health services. If state, public and private organisations worked alongside data centres with personal information and integrated its digital benefits and technology, safer cities can be possible. 