Nova debenture holders may experience some déjà vu when looking at the bulky Section 155 Scheme of Arrangement documentation related to the proposed listing of the Nova group. Just as was the case when Sharemax collapsed, investors are once again required to take a decision on the future of their investments based on a legal and technical document, penned by the same author, the current Nova chairman and major shareholder Connie Myburgh. The document explains how debenture holders can swap their debentures for shares in a newly JSE-listed entity, which would allow them to sell these shares on the open market to liquidate at least a portion of their original Sharemax investment. And, as was the case after Sharemax’s collapse, investors are threatened with losing more money if they do not approve the proposal. It may be a case of once bitten, twice shy, as the previous Scheme of Arrangement that brought about the Nova Group did not deliver the promised payouts and interest payments. At the same time, the four directors and three other founding shareholders received nearly 96% of the company without paying a cent. Very complex document and too little information In this context, Moneyweb conducted an intensive analysis of the newly-proposed Scheme of Arrangement. We approached several legal and accounting experts to obtain their opinions on the fairness of the proposal. The main message from all of these individuals is that it is a very complex scheme and that too little information was disclosed to allow them to pronounce on the fairness thereof. (The scheme documents were not accompanied by an independent fair and reasonable assessment either.) Considering these responses, Moneyweb sent several sets of questions to Myburgh and Nova CEO Dominique Haese, in an effort to get clarity on a number of issues. Despite a short answer from Haese (referred to in this article), no detailed responses were received. Read the questions Mr Myburgh doesn’t want to answer here and here. Connie Myburgh and Dominique Haese. Picture: Moneyweb Moneyweb also sent questions to Derek Cohen, trustee of the Nova Debenture Trust. He responded in some detail to various questions via his attorney but did not pronounce on the fairness of the proposal for debenture holders as he alleges, his duties are administrative responsibilities only. Judging from the responses of industry experts and the deafening silence from Myburgh and his board, it is clear that debenture holders do not have sufficient information to make an informed decision. It may even be that the promises made in the scheme of a restructured company, listed on the JSE, turn out to be as hollow as the last round of promises in 2012. JSE listing in the near future is highly unlikely From the information in the public domain, it is highly unlikely that the listing will take place anytime soon. There are several reasons for this, mostly to do with the directors’ decision not to provide adequate disclosure and to not be completely transparent. Moneyweb can confirm that seven working days ahead of the meeting where debenture holders will vote for or against the scheme, no formal application for a listing has been submitted to the JSE. The prelisting statement not been published either. This is telling, as serious questions remain over the financial viability of the company. Its latest 2016/17 financial statements show an operating loss of R87 million and a significant restatement of previously overvalued properties. This seems contrary to the scheme documentation where Nova projects an operating profit for the current financial year (ending February 2018) of R36 million and R65 million for the following year. Its auditor BDO also resigned stating that its JSE-accredited partners do not have the capacity to take on the work in the timeframes required by Nova’s directors. The listing may also be delayed by the courts, as Deon Pienaar has filed an application for an urgent interdict against the proposed transaction, which is scheduled to be heard early next week. The experts also questioned the absence of clear conditions for the Scheme of Arrangement related to the ownership and transfer of the underlying properties if the JSE does not approve the listing. Former Sharemax investors at a meeting held earlier this year in Pretoria. Picture: Moneyweb Sponsor and leadership remains undisclosed Nova hasn’t disclosed the identity of the sponsor, although Moneyweb confirmed that it is the River Group, a former sponsor of the JSE-listed and Gupta-owned Oakbay group. A River Group partner, Andrew Lianos, was also appointed as a director of the company that is to be listed. Moneyweb has sent questions to Lianos, but he hadn’t responded prior to publication. Nova has also stated that it has an investor willing to invest R400 million into the company, but is yet to reveal the entity’s identity. This investment is critical to the promised buyout of certain classes of debentures and to set the company on its promised path to profitability. If this investment does not materialise, then the financial health of the group may change very little in a newly-listed vehicle Another major non-disclosure is the identity of the leadership of the to-be-listed entity. However, online search tool Windeed lists Myburgh and Haese, as well as Lianos, as current directors. (It is interesting that the other two Nova directors, Dirk Koekemoer and Rudi Badenhorst apparently did not make the cut). The board does not seem to possess any new, or otherwise exceptional property management skills based on the financial performance of Nova since its inception. Myburgh has proven himself as a liquidator and cunning author of rescue schemes, but not as a manager of properties. Haese has extended experience in the industry as a former director of Sharemax and one of the first Nova directors, but the financial performance under her leadership has been underwhelming. Furthermore, Lianos does not seem to have any property management experience and is probably only on the board in an administrative capacity. Read Part 2: Many questions surround proposed Nova listing.  Part two provides a more in-depth analysis of the actual proposed Scheme of Arrangement.