In a bid to get out of jail Tigon accused Gary Porritt told the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) that his friend Vanessa Pretorius should have been allowed to testify in a hearing about his failure to attend court in June. The court should also have taken note of medical records of red marks on his buttocks after he allegedly fainted and fell three times within 30 minutes on June 9 this year, Porritt argues in a petition to the SCA. Porritt and co-accused Sue Bennett are on trial on more than 3 000 charges, including fraud, racketeering, transgression of the Companies Act, Income Tax Act and Stock Exchanges Control Act. The charges relate to the collapse of listed financial services group Tigon around 2002. Porritt was the CEO of Tigon and Bennett a director. Porritt has stated under oath that they have also been in a relationship for a long time. Bennett is currently on bail, but Porritt was arrested and his bail revoked after he failed to appear in court in June this year. Spilg earlier refused Porritt leave to appeal against his order, which is why he is now petitioning the SCA. At the time he claimed to be ill after he fainted several times. In an enquiry into the reasons for his non-appearance the court heard extensive medical evidence. Judge Brian Spilg concluded that Porritt intended not to appear in court and that he could not have fallen “as claimed by others, none of whom testified”. During the enquiry Porritt failed to properly disclose that on the night of June 9 when he fainted three times within half an hour, he was accompanied by Pretorius. He in fact took her to dinner to a restaurant pub called The Keg & Hedgehog in Pietermaritzburg where both he and Pretorius live. Bennett lives in Knysna. It was only during Porritt’s cross-examination that Pretorius’ presence and role on that night became apparent. When questioned about his failure to disclose it, Porritt said he wanted to save Bennett embarrassment in the light of their long-standing relationship, but if anybody asked him, he would have told them about Pretorius. Porritt’s legal representative at the time Advocate Annalene van den Heever said she had also been unaware of Pretorius’ role in the events of that evening. She then wanted to call her to testify about Porritt fainting at the Keg. Spilg then ruled that Pretorius could not be called to testify, since the evidence in the investigation and cross-examination was already before court and available for anybody to study. He further stated that “there was a search high and low for persons who could assist and his (Porritt’s) explanation of some form of embarrassment in calling Vanessa Pretorius holds no water”. Spilg ruled that the opportunity to call Pretorius to the stand had come and gone. Spilg also refused to admit affidavits by a waiter and car-guard at the restaurant who allegedly saw Porritt fainting, stating it would not add value since the enquiry was dealing with Porritt’s state of mind. This was misdirected, Porritt says in his petition to the SCA. Pretorius, as well as the other two witnesses in their affidavits, would have supported his account of events at the Keg, but the court decided not to hear it and concluded that the events did not occur. He says the court prejudged that matter, it prejudiced him in his defence and calls into question the “objectivity and fair-mindedness of the learned trial judge [Spilg]”. He further states that the State accused him of staging the fainting on all three occasions. Without putting it to him, the court however found that it never happened. The court did not even take into account evidence of red marks on his buttocks when he was admitted to hospital the next day, Porritt argues. Porritt told the SCA that Spilg allowed Advocate Etienne Coetzee SC for the state to subject him to “an unfair and badgering cross-examination and ultimately joined counsel for the State in cross-examining [him] to such an extent that any reasonable bystander would have been left with the impression that counsel for the State and the learned trial judge were acting hand-in-glove with one another in seeking to badger [him] into submission.” He requests that the appeal be granted, the order for him to be held in custody set aside and his bail be reinstated. The state has not yet filed its response. Porritt has also earlier filed a fresh bail application. He has recently supplemented his founding affidavit, but has yet to respond to the state’s answering papers, including a statement by investigating officer Sandra van Wyk, claiming that Porritt has direct and indirect access to assets worth more than R100 million.