A bombshell was dropped at the disciplinary hearing of Eskom suspended interim group chief executive Matshela Koko, that links alleged private sector corruption with Eskom bosses, an ANC Youth League leader and a prominent journalist. The allegations are contained in an affidavit by Ntokozo Dubazana, former chief of security at Makheda Protection Services that provided security for former Eskom contract manager France Hlakudi. Koko’s legal representative handed out copies of the affidavit to journalists at the hearing. It is not clear whether he will submit it as evidence at any stage. Hlakudi was implicated in R20 million-worth of bribes allegedly paid by Tubular Construction Projects to manipulate a construction contract at Eskom’s Kusile project. He denied the allegations when they were put to him earlier by Moneyweb, but refused to give a detailed explanation in light of on-going investigations by Eskom and the police. Hlakudi resigned from Eskom’s service on November 13, when he was about to be served with a notice to give reasons why he shouldn’t be suspended. In the affidavit, Dubazana says he worked as one of four bodyguards who protected Hlakudi from February 28 2017 to November 14 2017. He states that apart from protecting Hlakudi, his job was also to transport “bags of money” for Hlakudi to Peter Sebola, Abram Masango and Collen Maine. Masango is a member of Eskom’s executive committee working in the group executive’s office. Koko moved him to this position early this year. Before that move he was head of group capital. This is the division tasked with Eskom’s new-build projects. Eskom last week served Masango with a notice to give reasons why he should not be suspended. Sebola is currently interim head of group capital at Eskom. Maine is the president of the ANC Youth League. Dubazana says in his affidavit that on November 3 this year Hlakudi gave him a bag of cash to deliver to Maine’s home in Sunninghill. He could not initially reach Maine on his cell number, but Maine called back and told him to give the bag of money to his bodyguard. Hlakudi confirmed receipt, Dubazana says. He describes how Hlakudi earlier this year gave him a bag of money for Sebola. He met Sebola, who arrived driving a grey X5, “at the back side of the Woodmead Retail Park next to the factory shops”.  According to Dubazana he also delivered a bag of cash to Sunday Times journalist Mzilikazi Wa Afrika’s car “at a filling station in Sandton, next to an embassy” from Hlakudi’s car. Wa Afrika allegedly gave him the keys to his navy Mercedes Benz with registration number “Ngoma GP” and told him to put the money in his car, which he allegedly did. Dubazana describes how he also delivered a bag of cash from Hlakudi to Masango’s home in Mooikloof, Pretoria. “France told me that the bag had R2 million in it,” he states. He alleges that he gave the bag to Masango’s “private bodyguard”. He alleges that on one occasion he went into Hlakudi’s house, also in Mooikloof, and found him and his wife Nadine “counting stacks of R200 banknotes on the bed. I walked out”, he states. Dubazana states that he often transported documents between Hlakudi and Andre Botha, a private investigator whom he suspects helps Hlakudi with “communication listening devices and delivering classified documents”. He further states that Hlakudi is “a close associate of Mike, a director of a company called Tubular”. This is probably a reference to Mike Lomas, a former chairman of Group Five, who acted as an agent for Tubular and has been implicated as having played a key role in the alleged bribery. Read: Top construction company accused of R20m Kusile bribes Dubazana alleges that Hlakudi is protected by four bodyguards “all the time”. He alleges that Hlakudi “paid the bodyguards a salary of R16 000 directly in cash every month”. He further alleges that Hlakudi “kept a good relationship with a lady known to me as Mrs Yaka (Mam ka Andile), an employee of a state intelligence service in KZN”. He continues “I am not sure if Mrs Yaka worked for the State Security Agency of SAPS Crime Intelligence.” 