Judge Brian Spilg on Wednesday ordered Tigon accused Gary Porritt to apologise to him in writing and retract an accusation he made against Spilg. This followed after Porritt and his co-accused Sue Bennett repeatedly accused Spilg of being “totally biased” against them and said he consistently rejects any application they bring, no matter what it deals with. Porritt and Bennett are on trial for more than 3 000 charges including fraud, racketeering and contravention of the Companies Act, Stock Exchanges Control Act and Income Tax Act. The charges relate to the collapse of the JSE-listed financial services group Tigon around 2002. The start of the trial was delayed until 2016 due to applications and appeals brought by the accused. They claim to be penniless and unable to afford legal representation and therefore represent themselves in the trial. Porritt has been incarcerated since June when he was arrested because he failed to appear in court, claiming to be sick. At the start of the proceedings on Wednesday Spilg dealt with a letter Bennett sent to the prosecution, a copy of which was delivered to Spilg. It was related to “the true state” of Porritt’s health. Spilg was reluctant to read the letter since he has already ruled on the basis of extensive medical evidence that Porritt was not ill when he failed to appear in court earlier. The matter is now out of his hands since another judge will be hearing Porritt’s fresh bail application and the Supreme Court of Appeal will consider the petition he has lodged against Spilg’s order. After the lunch break, Bennett brought a formal application for the letter to be admitted. When Spilg asked what the purpose of the letter was, she said it was to show that Porritt was not lying about his medical condition and was “unquestionably ill”. She said Spilg has the perception that Porritt is a liar and believes that when he speaks, he is lying. Spilg said he considers matters as they come before him, according to the facts placed and in line with the court rules and processes. He said the accused should include the information contained in the letter to the application for his recusal they promised to bring. Porritt then said they did not have time to prepare the recusal application while the trial was running and pointed out that Spilg refused his earlier application for a postponement of two months to prepare the application. He then accused Spilg of “engineering a situation” where they did not have time to work on the recusal application. This was too much for Spilg. He ordered Porritt to submit a written apology and request to have the remark struck off the record. He adjourned court to give Porritt an opportunity to write the apology. In his apology, Porritt wrote that his statement was an “open and frank response” to an attack by state prosecutor Advocate Etienne Coetzee regarding the accused’s failure to bring the recusal application. Porritt said he “meant no disrespect” but added that he believed it to be “the correct factual position”. He “unreservedly” apologised and retracted it “unconditionally”. Spilg was not impressed and said the apology was conditional. He admitted it into the record. Spilg ruled that he would read Bennett’s application regarding Porritt’s health and rule on its admissibility on Thursday morning. State witness Jack Milne continued with his testimony. He was the CEO of Progressive Systems College Guaranteed Growth, an investment fund underwritten by Tigon. Milne testified Bennett told him on February 14 2003 that there was still no money to pay out the investors. He decided to get out. He “put on a rucksack” and started walking from his home in Fourways to Parys in the Free State. He walked for seven days. He stayed in Parys for a couple of days, faxed his resignation, bought an inflatable canoe and paddled down the Vaal and Orange rivers for two weeks. He got out and took a bus to Warrenton in the Northern Cape. His ex-wife came from George to fetch him and he stayed in her father’s house in Knysna for five weeks. Milne said he was “deeply depressed” and realised that his reputation as a financial expert and the businesses he has built up over 18 years were ruined. He said he contacted investigating officer Herman Smith and offered his full cooperation in the matter. While assisting the liquidators, he later went through a document Porritt submitted in the liquidation proceedings that Porritt purported to be a complete reconciliation of all money that flowed from PSCGG to EBN Trading and Awethu Trust. These were related entities to Tigon and according to Milne, they were controlled by Porritt. He picked up a R115 million “balancing transaction” that Porritt apparently fabricated to eliminate the two entities’ indebtedness to PSCGG, Milne testified. Milne said the transaction did not make common sense, as PSCGG apparently bought Shawcell shares at 55c each while they traded on the JSE at 20c each. The transaction was a single line item in a 98-page document that he thinks Porritt inserted for a specific purpose, hoping that the liquidators would overlook it, Milne testified. Milne said Awthu Trust and EBN Trading benefitted by discharging its indebtedness to PSCGG.