As economic growth slows and business confidence fades in South Africa, so banks and other credit providers have become more cautious in their lending practices. This has opened up a gap for development finance institution, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), to extend its lending in the country. According to the latest annual report, new investment volume in South Africa more than doubled between 2016 and 2017. In the year to the end of June 2017 new investments reached $428 million, up from $179 million in 2016. This was the IFC’s strongest year for new business in South Africa since 2013 and saw the investment portfolio in South Africa reach $1.2 billion. The figures are the result of two to three years of concerted effort with the IFC looking to play a virtuous role, says Saleem Karimjee, the IFC’s country manager for Southern Africa. “It is not our job to displace private sector funding and until recently the SA banking sector and capital markets have provided much of the capital that the private sector needed.” However, as the economy tightens, the financial sector tends to manage its loan book more conservatively and typically lending cycles become shorter, thus opening opportunities for long-term financiers like the IFC. Its most recent investments in South Africa include FirstRand, BMW, Bounty Brands and ADvTech. Each one is representative of an area of interest for the IFC, which supports the private sector in emerging markets. Perhaps the biggest opportunities lies with the SME sector. In June the organisation announced it was investing R2.6 billion in FirstRand in a transaction that launched a broader programme aimed at expanding SME lending and strengthening support for small and medium enterprises by the formal banking sector. There is massive unmet demand by SME’s for funding and support in South Africa. “This is not a problem you can solve overnight,” says Karimjee. “This is a huge space.” Saleem Karimjee. Picture: supplied As such the IFC has designed the SME Push Programme to channel anything between R26 billion and R39 billion-worth of investment into South African SMEs over the next five to seven years. The package will include investments, risk sharing facilities, and advisory services.    “The banks are cautious and not used to the risk that SME lending exposes them to. However we have a lot of expertise in the space and as a result we are seeing growing interest from the other banks as well.” Manufacturing – for its job creation possibilities – is another area of interest for the IFC. This year saw it commit $150 million to BMW South Africa, which is investing R6 billion into retooling its Rosslyn plant, which will produce the new BMW X3. “The automotive sector is South Africa’s biggest employer and one of the country’s biggest exporters,” he says. “The way the automotive supply chain is structured – with an OEM like BMW at the apex – means that by supporting BMW we are able to reach down into its entire supply chain.” By supporting smaller suppliers with capital and technical capabilities, it should be possible for BMW to increase its local content from 35% to 45%, which will create thousands of jobs, he says. With a presence in 16 other African countries the IFC is also in a position to help companies grow their business outside of SA. “There was a wave of companies about ten years ago who invested in Africa and came home with bloody noses. This current wave is going about it in a more thoughtful and contemplative way,” Karimjee says. One example is ADvTech. Earlier this year the IFC acquired a 2.5% equity stake in the education provider. Its R190 million investment in newly-issued shares will support ADvTech’s plans to expand into new African markets. This will lead to better educational access for at least 30 000 additional students, many of whom would not otherwise have had the opportunity to access quality education or vocational training. As a development finance organisation the IFC is driven by a double bottom line: “We must be financially sustainable, but we also try to obtain the highest developmental income from the projects we finance. We measure this in many ways – growth in employment, returns to the economy. “In South Africa right now we are eyes open. If there is a sector where private capital is struggling to fully meet the need, perhaps because its at the risky end of the spectrum, we will explore opportunities.” One area where the private sector may fear to tread is in the funding of local metros. While essentially a private sector funder, the IFC will work with municipalities that are financially well managed and commercially well operated. For instance the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality was hoping to raise money on the bond market, however with South Africa staring at a full downgrade, there was no appetite for the debt. The IFC anchored the bond issuance. “We gave confidence to the market,” Karimjee says. While this was a purely financial transaction the IFC is now exploring ways in which it can help the city adopt global best practices in city management.