South Africans are embracing the opportunities that come with Black Friday specials. In the past three years, online shopping and e-commerce have been picking up, especially with retailers promoting specials days before the big day. But traditional retailers remain jam-packed. Certified customer experience professional (CCXP), Julia Ahlfeldt said such promotional days certainly stimulate spending activity, and boost economies. “It can be very beneficial in terms of catalysing spending for consumers who can maximise discounts.” With the purchasing frenzy in the air with Black Friday, Cyber Monday and the festive season approaching, many shoppers give in to the temptation of every good deal. Marketing manager of Budget Insurance, Susan Steward advised that shoppers must rather ensure that they budget for their needs before splashing on all the things they want. “Don’t feel pressured to take advantage of every deal you see,” she added. Budget Insurance offers 10 tips on how to control your spending this Black Friday. RunwaySale CEO, Karl Hammerschmidt says consumers are becoming more comfortable with buying online. “The fact is South Africans love to bargain hunt. Online is just so much easier. With a click of a button you can buy a high-end pair of shoes/dress/bag at up to 80% off, delivered to your door! No fighting the crowds.  It’s about shopping in the comfort of your own home, at any time of day, while saving money.” However, Ahlfeldt said there’s place for both in-store and online shopping experiences. Some items are best bought over the counter while others delivered to either your home or office. Seeing specials and promotions all around is enticing and to further guide shoppers, John Manyike, head of financial education at Old Mutual said to avoid a financial hangover at the end of the spree, shoppers should certainly shop consciously. He advises: Hammerschmidt said going forward, Black Friday is expected to keep growing. Online sales are only around 1% of total retail sales in South Africa and, Black Friday is still very young. The future looks bright, he said, if you’ve got the capability to reach out and grab it.