South Africa is unlikely to require aid from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) despite its growing economic woes, a former employee of the fund told media in Johannesburg. “Usually when you need an IMF programme, you have a lot of external financing needs – which is not the case in South Africa. South African debt is mostly to domestic investors [such as] households and corporations,” said Ferhan Salman, a senior economist covering South Africa and Turkey at Merrill Lynch International. Prior to joining the Bank of America unit, Salman spent almost eight years at the IMF and formed part of the team that negotiated a package for Jordan. South Africa – as a member of the IMF – is subject to ongoing surveillance and consultations, during which a team from the fund visits the country and meets with various stakeholders to assess the country’s financial and economic position. Salman told journalists that the fund is entitled to give recommendations based on its finds but that the findings are unlikely to come with a package as they are usually not directed toward fiscal finances. His comments come after a number of commentators touted an IMF bailout as a viable means to address the challenges vexing the country. Finance minister Malusi Gigaba, in his maiden Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement, laid bare the extent of the challenges that the country faces. He cut the GDP growth forecast for 2017 down from 1.3% to 0.7%. He also projected a revenue shortfall of R50.8 billion and a budget deficit of 4.3% of GDP – compared with a previous estimate of 3.4% – as well as a rise in debt-to-GDP to 61% over the next three years. Although unsustainable, the debt-to-GDP did not come as a surprise, Salman said. He did, however, add that a lack of policy steps aimed at addressing the challenges was surprising. “When I talked to the IMF back in June, the Treasury had actually discussed certain measures – to be implemented in the February budget – with them. But why they didn’t announce [the measures] was a little bit puzzling.” He added, based on his discussions with ratings agencies, that Treasury planned to use the situation as a “reality check” and “political leverage” to implement certain measures in February. S&P Global Ratings downgraded the country’s local currency debt rating to sub-investment grade and cut the foreign currency rating further into sub-investment grade territory on Friday. In a statement, it said measures due in the February budget may not be sufficient to stabilise near-term public finances. Ratings agencies have long called for reforms to stimulate growth and warned that political jostling coupled with government’s ballooning contingent liabilities posed a threat to the country’s ratings. On Friday, Moody’s placed South Africa on downgrade review and maintained its local and foreign currency ratings just one notch above junk. Fitch, on Thursday, affirmed the country’s debt ratings as junk. Salman said the economy is on track to grow at 0.8% in 2017, per Merrill Lynch’s March forecasts, and that growth would improve to 1.5% in 2018 as the noise around ratings and politics eases.