The board of Distribution and Warehousing Network (DAWN) on Monday assured investors that the construction materials group will be solvent and liquid for the next twelve months. This assessment is based on an independent report by PwC after a concerted effort by the new management team to restructure the balance sheet. This included the sale of non-core assets including Febrex Angola, Boutique Baths, and its 49% stake in GDWT and 51% in Swan Plastics. Thanks to the proceeds of the rights offer in April the debt-to-equity ratio dropped from 87% in March to 27% in September. According to CEO Edwin Hewitt DAWN will be virtually debt-free by the end of December after the receipt of the R324.5 million proceeds of the GDWT transaction on December 20. Hewitt said the turnaround is taking a bit longer than anticipated; due to the difficult market conditions and lack of government spend on construction. In the six months ended September 30, DAWN recorded a 20% drop in revenue to R1.9 billion. This is partly due to the fact that the group did not have money to import stock in the WHS business and lost the Gardena agency. It scaled down production in DPI and Incledon due to a lack of government work and experienced internal inefficiencies. Operating expenditure dropped from R567 million in the first half of the previous financial year to R455 million as a result of strict cost control and the loss before interest and tax decreased from R338 million to R19 million. The earnings per share (EPS) showed a loss of 19.5c, down from 111.8c a year ago and headline earnings per share (Heps) decreased from 98.1c a year ago to 13.7c. DAWN’s share price dropped by 3.41% to 85c. The share has lost 20% of its value over the last month and 58% over the last year. Hewitt repeated his earlier assurance that DAWN will be profitable again in FY2019. The new management team has only been at the helm of the struggling business for six months. Apart from stabilising the balance sheet and working capital, the team went to the coalface to ensure that they understand the needs of their customers. “We all adopted some customers. I have five customers,” Hewitt says. They visited the customers and engaged them for hours, he says. “None of them complained about price,” he says. It is clear that customer service has to be improved, but also that there is huge opportunity to increase, if not double DAWN’s market share, he says. On the other hand, DAWN should use its buying power more efficiently, he says. As an example, he says the group sells a large proportion of the 451 000 wheel barrows sold in the country annually – all at a loss! He says the management team found that 50% of the items the group sold, were in fact sold at a loss. This, while DAWN represents up to 60% of the sales of some of its suppliers. “The tail was wagging the dog,” he says, promising to renegotiate supply contracts. Working capital has improved to above the target level of 15% of revenue and will continue to improve, Hewitt said. In the second half management will focus on improving the sales and margin at WHS, strengthening terms with suppliers, review the product range to align it with the market and develop an e-commerce ability. It will keep its eye on costs and prioritise BBBEE and optimise cash flow and working capital.