As South Africa stares down the barrel of ratings downgrades, Investec group’s chief executive lashed government for “fighting political wars and not concentrating on building the country”. Speaking to Moneyweb after the banking group announced interim financial results, he said interacting with government on issues of national importance has become more difficult in the run up to the ANC’s elective conference. “You’re not dealing with people you can talk to at the moment because they’re all running around politicking for the election coming up in December.” Koseff is one of a number of business leaders who, together with labour and government (under the auspices of the CEO Initiative), committed in 2016 to work together to address the country’s key challenges. Now, Koseff and Goldman Sachs’ Colin Coleman are leading the Youth Employment Services (YES) Programme geared at providing one million youth with internships over a three-year period. He said their team was working “day and night” to get the programme ready for launch but needs government support to really get traction. “We need government collaboration – sometimes I think we’re getting there, sometimes I think we’re going backwards but we keep focusing. When you’re trying to create that many jobs for people who have never had a job and have very little chance of getting a job unless there’s an intervention, you’d think government would embrace it and supply what is needed to get there. But there’s politics that you just have to navigate and say ‘this is very important for South Africa.’” He even went as far as saying that some concerns, particularly related to power utility Eskom’s financial woes, are ‘falling on deaf ears’ but acknowledged that some progress has been made at South African Airways, with the appointment of a new board tasked with turning the cash-strapped national carrier around. Ratings agencies have consistently warned that governance issues and contingent liabilities at state-owned enterprises (SOEs) pose a serious threat to the South Africa’s credit rating. S&P and Fitch downgraded South Africa’s foreign-currency rating to sub-investment grade following the removal of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister in March while Moody’s downgraded South Africa to one notch above junk in June. S&P and Moody’s are due to review the country’s foreign and local currency ratings on Friday, November 24. “At the end of the day, you need a government that is willing and able to start delivering,” he said referring to finance minister Malusi Gigaba’s medium term budget policy statement. According to Koseff, people are now worried as the minister laid out the budget and budget deficit but didn’t provide a strategy nor solution to address the country’s economic woes. “There is a solution. But it’s not a solution that is in line with the thinking of a developmental state…My solution would be simple. I would start selling some of these SOEs, I would strip out Eskom and start getting private sector partners – just like they did with Telkom years ago –  to come in with capital and start running the different pieces. I would get people to come in and invest in them and then it would no longer be a burden on the state [and] the state can be relieved of their guarantees.” He also noted that it is unlikely that investor and business confidence would return until there is clarity on who is going to lead the ruling party and well as policy certainty. Until then, the country would continue to limp along at sub-par GDP growth and be left behind as growth in the rest of the world picks up.