It’s not like we weren’t warned. But the downgrade to junk status by Standard & Poor’s on Friday evening showed just how poor we have become as a nation in managing our finances. Listen: Downgrades may not mean Armageddon – Mothata The country’s only saving grace appears to be that the decision was so widely anticipated, it was already priced into the country’s currency and bond yields. The rand still moved immediately from R13.98 to R14.12 to the dollar on the back of the announcement, but a better indication of where it will go is likely only to be seen on Monday morning when heavier trade in the currency resumes. Rand versus the US Dollar, 24-25 November  Source: Saxo Read: S&P downgrades SA’s local currency debt to junk In response, National Treasury issued a statement indicating that any real detail with regards to reigning in government spending will only be provided in the budget speech next year. It stated the following: “The Presidential Fiscal Committee (PFC) is seized with the task of restoring business confidence in the immediate term and executing decisively growth-enhancing measures previously announced. Speculative-grade ratings have negative implications for economic growth, borrowing costs for the economy as a whole, state-owned companies’ ability to borrow and the ordinary person on the street. Restoring business and consumer confidence, and catalyzing inclusive growth is the top priority of government. To this end, government is working urgently and diligently on practical steps to provide the necessary policy certainty, an environment conducive to investment, and predictability that the country so desperately needs. Decisive actions in managing government expenditure and closing the revenue gap are critical for achieving sound public finances. In the MTBPS chapter on Fiscal Policy, we indicated that additional spending cuts or tax increases of R40 billion (0.8 per cent of GDP), would be required from 2018/19, in order to stabilise public debt below 60 percent of GDP over the next decade. Over the next two weeks, the PFC and Cabinet will consider a package of measures to this effect, to be implemented from 2018. Specific details on these measures will be announced in the 2018 Budget.” Business Leadership South Africa, an association of some of the country’s largest businesses, was quick to offer a diagnosis of the problem: “Events such as the two cabinet reshuffles, mixed messages around nuclear capability, poor numbers and a lack of direction in the Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement, and most recently the resignation of Michael Sachs at National Treasury, have all sent a message of instability and lack of clarity to the ratings agencies. The downgrade announced on Friday, as well as the downgrades earlier this year, reflect the declining confidence in the management of our economy, the quality of our institutions, and the choices we are making as a society. Deficiencies in these areas are making the possibility of a prosperous South Africa less and less plausible and the lives of South Africans are getting more and more expensive. The situation we are in was avoidable. Instead of pursuing stability and certainty in fiscal policy and regulatory reform, government has become riddled with the twin cancers of corruption and state capture and put the economy of South Africa in jeopardy.” BLSA reiterated its call for an independent judicial inquiry into State Capture and the urgency in dealing with the leadership and governance at state-owned entities. President of the CEO initiative, a high-level panel comprising select leaders from South Africa’s business community, added its voice. President Jabu Mabuza said: “All the negative ratings actions that the country as suffered so far could and should have been avoided, had the required structural reforms necessary to underpin sustained and inclusive economic growth been implemented in the interests of all South Africans. The CEO Initiative has spent much time over the last few months working with government and labour in developing a plan on what was required to avoid these downgrades, but little has been implemented and – if anything – we saw political and policy uncertainty increase. “It is disappointing that key sectors for economic growth and employment continue to operate amid uncertain industry policy, and there are still too many regulatory impediments that hinder investment. The continuing challenges regarding the proposed Mining Charter is an example of legislative uncertainty that has been negative for confidence, growth and jobs at a time when exactly the opposite was needed.