There is a “high probability” that regulators could require private sector pension funds to invest a minimum portion of their assets in certain infrastructure projects in future, the CEO of Sanlam Employee Benefits, Dawie de Villiers, has said. In an effort to develop the country and fuel economic growth, a minimum allocation to such asset classes has been discussed for several years, but recent suggestions by Finance minister Malusi Gigaba that Treasury could approach the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) to assist ailing state-owned enterprises, have enraged labour unions and highlighted concerns around the allocation of member funds to certain assets. The PIC manages money on behalf of the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF). Addressing a roundtable discussion, De Villiers said it was very easy to justify legislative requirements to invest money in infrastructure projects – South Africa needs investment, pension funds have the necessary funds and are in a position to help build infrastructure which could fuel economic growth.   “It is a constant discussion.” It is not the asset class itself that is the problem, but how the investment is managed, he said. Funding a business to do water desalination in Cape Town could potentially be a great investment – it depends how the business received the contract, who got paid for it and whether it could be completed within its budget. “If it is a normal Eskom-type of contract then it is going to be bad.” Due to their long-term nature pension funds generally lend themselves to investment in infrastructure projects. Although the asset class is illiquid, there has been growing interest in infrastructure investment among pension funds in developed markets with an estimated allocation of around 2% to 3%. Although Regulation 28 of the Pension Funds Act allows for up to 15% of a retirement fund’s assets to be invested in alternative asset classes, many local pension funds don’t have any exposure to infrastructure or alternative asset classes such as private equity. De Villiers said the Sanlam Employee Benefits business had various annuity portfolios with an investment time horizon of roughly 30 years where employees contributed to the pension fund. “I am looking for those types of opportunities to invest in because it is a like-for-like asset.” He warned however that these investments have to be transparent and that the right players with appropriate backing have to be on board. “Good deals” would be done within this space and members in certain funds would benefit, which was great, he added. “But if you open that window [legislating minimum allocations to infrastructure] and it is not done very, very well and the legislation isn’t very clear, it just opens up another box of places where money can get lost and that is the problem that I have with it. It doesn’t mean that it shouldn’t happen.” Due to the nature of infrastructure projects, there are often lots of people and consultants involved, which could increase the risk that money could be lost, he added. Where a company invested in an infrastructure programme, it would do a proper due diligence and put money behind the project, but trustees often did not have the skill to evaluate such projects, which could be to the detriment of members, he said. “It is the how, it is not the concept,” he said.