For most investors, past performance is the single most important factor when evaluating a unit trust. While this is understandable, it’s also problematic. This is not just because of the well-established fact that past performance does not guarantee future returns, but because simply looking at performance does not tell you how the fund got there. This is particularly true for equity funds and their returns over longer time periods. A lot can be hidden by a five-year or even three-year performance figure. An excellent example is that over the past three years, the Investec Value Fund and the Satrix Momentum Index Fund are two of the top-performing South African general equity unit trusts. Yet, these funds are almost polar opposites in their strategies, and as the two graphs below indicate, their journeys to this point have been completely different (the red line is the fund performance, green the index, and orange the category average): Investec Value Fund Source: Morningstar Satrix Momemtum Index Fund Source: Morningstar While the Investec Value Fund is currently the top performer over this three-year period, its returns have been extremely volatile. It has also been the most volatile of all local equity funds in these 36 months. This is not, however, unexpected. The fund’s deep-value strategy means that it is prone to these swings between periods of severe underperformance and sharp spikes of rapid gains. An informed investor who expects this kind of volatility and is happy to hold the fund for the long term will be able to sit these out. However, someone who doesn’t understand this strategy and invests purely based on the fact that the fund is currently a top performer, is likely to get caught unprepared. When they experience a period of underperformance they may think the fund is not doing what it should. This is what leads to investors making emotional decisions, withdrawing their funds at the wrong time, and locking in losses. It’s for this reason that investors need to pay attention not only to a fund’s return, but also its strategy and return profile. Volatility is a big part of this. The table below shows the top ten performing equity funds over the past three years, together with their three-year standard deviation. Source: Morningstar It’s obvious from this list how extreme the Investec Value Fund’s volatility has been. It is more than double any other fund in the top 10. While volatility in itself is not risk, it is a risk to investor behaviour. Compare the above performance graphs to that of the Aylett Equity Prescient Fund, which shows the lowest three-year standard deviation of any of the top 20 performers over this period: Aylett Equity Prescient Fund Source: Morningstar Not only has this fund not delivered a negative return in any year over the last five, it has also avoided any large drawdowns over this period. This is significant not only because large losses tend to spook investors into selling and taking their money somewhere else, but also because by minimising drawdowns a manager also has to take less risk on the upside to recover. To illustrate this further, the Aylett fund’s worst one-year return was -19.2%, experienced during the 2008 financial crisis. By comparison, the Investec Value Fund’s lowest one-year return is more than double that at 42.0%. This is not to say that one fund is ‘better’ than the other, but that when investors are choosing funds they need to know what they are buying. There may be very good reason for basing this selection on more than just performance alone.