Most South Africans love shortcuts. From illegal U-turns to cut a minute or two off a morning commute, to any number of supplements and pills and fad diets that promise rapid weight loss (and abs!). Any wonder why get-rich-quick Ponzi schemes thrive in this country?  With money and personal finances, it’s hardly different. People want quick fixes. Last week, I detailed why I decided to pay off my house 15 years early, and also shared some ‘common sense’ tips in how to actually achieve this. Given the topic – and the strong views either way – I expected a fair amount of feedback. I received tons. What I didn’t expect were the flood of people on e-mail and social media looking for shortcuts. “Tell me the secret,” read some. Most – not all – of you reading this will know there isn’t a secret (I realise that I’m preaching to the converted here!). I didn’t inherit any money that suddenly made this possible. I don’t work for a bank so didn’t have the benefit of an ultra-low interest rate. Another common theme was “I’ve tried but I have all these other bills to pay”. The only ‘secret’ I could offer them in reply was the same ‘common-sense’ I had shared in the ‘how’ piece: finding extra money to save or pay down debt is going to require some sacrifices. You certainly cannot, for example, find an extra R1 000 or R5 000 or R10 000 a month out of thin air! This means cuts have to be made. Eating out once a week has to turn into once a month. Or once a month into special occasions only (every other month). These are easy. Far harder are other choices with longer-term impacts, like your car and where you actually end up buying a house. You can’t spend freely but want to make inroads into your debt… these are the folks who sit back in despair because you have a mountain of bills every month and there’s “just ‘no’ money” for saving. There’s a fundamental difference between ‘want’ and ‘need’, and this is crucial for getting a grip on your finances. The pieces last week were specifically about why and how I got rid of debt by age 35. (Not all debt, mind you. I co-own an investment property and there we have made a deliberate choice to minimise tax exposure, for now.)  However, just because I am no longer paying off a car or my house, does not mean I’m suddenly financially ‘fit’ or ‘free’. Of course, I’ve ensured I’m in a more fortunate position than most. But, I’ve still got to worry about things like keeping up with inflation, ongoing savings, investments and planning for retirement. Debt is only one aspect of one’s finances; there’s a lot more to it than that. And perhaps this is why some people find themselves in all sorts of trouble, and why many are simply so overwhelmed by it all. Admit to yourself that you probably need help and get professional assistance from a qualified financial advisor. Financial ‘health’ is surely no different from physical and mental health? (Nor is it different from legal ‘wellness’.) And there we pay professionals eye-watering amounts of money to keep us healthy! Every single person’s situation is unique, but the problems and potential solutions have all been seen and tried before. Understand that any plan you create will need lots of discipline and focus to be successful. Again, this isn’t something you solve in a month or two. Paying down debt takes months (in the case of smaller amounts) and years (in the case of larger assets/amounts). Saving for retirement takes decades, a task made doubly difficult because people are exceptionally bad at comprehending the long term, i.e. anything beyond a month or two. And know that your plan will need revisiting and adjusting – circumstances change. But your overall ambition shouldn’t. Oh, and one more thing… There is no silver bullet! Read: Why I paid my house off 15 years early Read: How I paid my house off in under five years Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at hilton@moneyweb.co.za.