Emotional Nova debenture holders were not allowed to vote on a motion of no confidence in the Nova board at a meeting held in Pretoria on Friday. Nova is the rescue vehicle established for the failed Sharemax property syndication scheme. The meeting was a continuation of an earlier meeting on November 11 and the only matter on the agenda was the proposal to list all the Nova property syndications on the JSE and convert debentures to shares in the listed company, the chairman Graeme Polson ruled. Before the start of the meeting, debenture holder Roger Johnson handed leaflets to attendees. He informed them that he planned to table a motion of no confidence in the Nova board and urged them to “be highly vocal and demonstrative in support of it”. Johnson said in the leaflet that the delay in voting on the proposed share listing provides an opportunity for debenture holders to mobilise and set up a representative structure. At the start of the meeting, Nova CEO Dominique Haese said the board had considered issues raised at the previous meeting. She repeated announcements made since in a press release, that the proposed conversion of the company structure would be conditional to a successful listing and that the syndicated properties would be transferred to the company that will be listed. The board would also proceed to appoint an independent audit firm to give an opinion on the fairness and reasonableness of the proposal to debenture holders. Dominique Haese, Nova CEO addresses a meeting of debenture holders on November 24, 2017 in Pretoria.  She said the board would consider the contentious award of 43% of the shares in the listed company to the founding shareholders in the light of the independent fairness opinion that it will obtain. Debenture holders will meet again on March 16, which will give them enough time to consider the opinion on the fairness and reasonableness of the transaction as well as the pre-listing statement, Haese said. Debenture holders who have already voted will be allowed to change their vote. Renè Bronkhorst, representing the De Villiers Family Trust, and her husband insisted on a forensic audit of the group. Haese and Nova chairman Connie Myburgh said they were welcome to do it, as long as they bear the cost. During the meeting, Johnson accused the board of underplaying the risk attached to the listing. Polson allowed him to speak to the proposal, but would not entertain the motion of no confidence, as this was in his opinion not the correct forum for it. George Meiring who, together with his business partner, invested their R5 million retirement money in Sharemax, questioned the R9.5 million Nova owed to chairman Connie Myburgh’s legal firm. Nova chairman Connie Myburgh at a meeting of debenture holders in Pretoria on November 24, 2017. Moneyweb earlier reported that former Nova financial director Rudi Badenhorst disputed Myburgh’s claim that these were historic legal fees due to him. Badenhorst, who was subsequently asked by Myburgh to resign and did so, told Moneyweb editor Ryk van Niekerk at the time this amount was actually a retainer related to the closure of Myburgh’s firm when he became the chairman and employee of the group. Badenhorst said he protested against these payments and the retainer because it is in addition to Myburgh’s current annual salary of more than R4 million. The amount was written off in the previous financial year, but reappeared and was approved when the new board convened, Badenhorst said. Haese on Friday repeated that the R9.5 million was a retainer for legal services rendered over many years and was separate from his fees as chairman. Ben Nsibandze said he came from Swaziland for the meeting. He said he represents three groups of investors who total more than 2 000 people. Together they invested R29 million in Sharemax. The investors include many pensioners and people who live in far rural areas who don’t get correspondence and would anyway battle to understand it, he said. The group also includes politicians and the pensions of Swaziland’s telecommunication workers. Nsibandze said the group has appealed to the Swaziland Financial Services Regulatory Authority (FSRA), the equivilant of the local Financial Services Board to assist them in getting their money back. He said investors feel they have been misled. Haese confirmed that Nova received a letter from the Swazi FSRA earlier this week. Several debenture holders called on attendees to form a representative forum and a number of them remained behind after the meeting to discuss a way forward in this regard. Iva Kautsky wore a T-shirt to the Nova debenture holders meeting to commemorate her father, Kautsky. Kautsky invested almost R1 million in Sharemax’s De Villa and Zambezi property syndication schemes and committed suicide in front of the Sharemax offices on 15 July 2013 as a result of the collapse of the scheme. Pictures: Antoinette Slabbert