Earlier this month Moneyweb reported that consumer rights lawyer Trudie Broekmann was planning a class action suit against holiday clubs on behalf of at least 70 of her clients. She argues that not only do none of the contracts she has seen between holiday clubs and their members comply with legislation, but that the companies do not deliver on their obligations. Broekmann also noted that she had legally cancelled 48 contracts on behalf of clients, mostly with Quality Vacation Club and Flexi Holiday Club. However she had received no response from these two companies to her letters. Flexi Holiday Club has now disputed this, claiming that it has “no record of any cancellations facilitated by Trudie Broekmann attorneys”. The company also claimed that “other than stating that timeshare agreements are ‘illegal and don’t comply with the legal requirements’, Mrs Broekmann has provided no specifics”. Yet Moneyweb is in possession of a letter from Broekmann addressed to Club Leisure Management, which is Flexi Holiday Club’s management company that was sent both by email and registered post on August 31 this year. It not only serves to cancel her clients’ contract, but lays out extremely detailed reasons for doing so. Complaints Flexi Holiday Club also claimed that Broekmann misrepresented how many complaints had been laid against holiday clubs at the National Consumer Commission (NCC). In a press release, she had noted that, according to NCC commissioner Ebrahim Mohamed, the Department of Trade and Industry had received several thousand complaints about the industry. “The number of NCC complaints quoted by Trudie Broekmann differs substantially from the number quoted to the industry by the NCC,” Flexi Club claimed. “To put this matter into context, the number of complaints received by the NCC Public Inquiry and lodged with the Consumer Goods and Services Ombud totals 440, which constitutes 0.1% of all timeshare weeks owned.” Broekmann was however only quoting information already in the public domain. Mohamed has been quoted in the media as saying that thousands of complaints have been received, and Moneyweb has also reported on how the Freedom Front Plus has submitted more than 4 000 complaints to the NCC on behalf of consumers. Court action Given that the NCC has already conducted public hearings and is engaged in addressing issues in the industry, Flexi Holiday Club also questioned why Broekmann still felt it was necessary to take the issue to court. “Considering that class actions are known to be amongst the most protracted and costly means of consumer resolution and that the NCC Inquiry Panel is expected to make recommendations in the first quarter of next year, which at the very least will include new consumer protection and possibly legislative reforms, why would Mrs Broekmann engage in legal action knowing that it is likely that such action may become redundant?” the company asked. Broekmann however argues that, on the contrary, class actions are known to settle quickly after a class has been registered and that legislative reform won’t help her clients. “A class action is specifically provided for in the CPA, and is an efficient way of dealing with broad-spectrum consumer complaints,” she points out. “I am waiting for the NCC’s report on their investigation into the industry before I finalise my strategy, but I expect they will only recommend legislative reform, which is a slow and uncertain process and most likely will not assist my clients who already have timeshare, as legislation cannot have a retroactive effect.” She added that the benefit of a class action is that the legal costs are spread between claimants, which makes them manageable. False pretenses Flexi Holiday Club also urged consumers to “consult with their personal attorneys before participating in any class action to avoid contributing financially to an undertaking which may never materialise, or which is specifically designed to extort monies from consumers under false pretenses, as occurred in Europe”. Moneyweb asked whether Flexi Club was suggesting that Broekmann was deliberately extorting money from her clients, but the company responded that: “We are merely urging consumers to act with caution to prevent a repeat of what happened in Europe where attorneys, or entities purporting to be attorneys, extorted money from consumers under the pretext of a pending class action, which ultimately never materialised. We have also written to Mrs Broekmann to request a list of the complaints against Flexi Holiday Club to engage with her to achieve a swift resolution for these consumers, however we have not yet received a response.” Broekmann however notes that she is under no obligation to disclose her legal strategy. She also pointed out that the legal profession is regulated and lawyers can be removed from the roll if they are found to have misled clients or undertaken litigation under false pretences. “The class action will only go ahead once the legal team is satisfied that the legal grounds are sound, the best strategy is being employed and enough consumers are committed to take part to make the legal charges relatively affordable,” Broekmann said. “We intend to engage at least one senior advocate and we are obtaining input from counsel who have already launched a class action in South Africa, so there will be a legal team of heavyweights who will all have to be convinced that the remedy I suggest can be achieved before we start approaching consumers to join up.”