Many South African retirees in living annuity products may be heading for serious financial trouble. Yet many of them don’t realise it. Speaking at the South African Independent Financial Advisors Association (SAIFAA) workshop, investment professional at Marriott, Lourens Coetzee, pointed out that many people in living annuities have not considered the long-term implications of how much they are drawing from their savings. They are therefore taking unsustainable incomes and eating into their capital, with the inevitable consequence that they risk running out of money. This situation is also made worse by the likelihood that South African investors are moving into what is likely to be a sustained period of low returns. “From our perspective, we think we are going to see below average returns for the next decade,” Coetzee said. “This has significant consequences for clients drawing an income. If you are drawing an income every month, you can’t wait for returns to come through.” Failure rates Marriott has conducted research going back to 1900, which bears this out. They looked at the outcomes for an investor retiring at the start of every year from that date, and what they found is quite scary. Using an average balanced fund-type asset allocation of 60% in equities, 30% in bonds and 10% in cash, they worked out what would happen if investors started with draw down rates of between 4% and 7% and increased these by inflation every year. The question they asked was whether the retiree’s money would last 30 years. If at any point the retiree’s draw down rate rose to above 17.5% of their capital, they considered this a failure, since this is the current maximum allowed by law. Once you reach that level, your capital is in any case only going to last you a few more years before it is entirely depleted. Using different draw down rates, this is what they found: Source: Marriott “The one thing that our industry is in agreement about is that 4% is the safe maximum,” said Coetzee. “And that in itself is pretty scary, because if you look at the average client, they are drawing 6% or more from their living annuities.” What is even more scary is that the 4% calculated by Marriott is before fees. “If you assume a 1.5% total fee, then you have to reduce the draw down by that 1.5%,” Coetzee said. “That all of a sudden makes 2.5% the safe level.” In other words, for every R1 000 of monthly income you require, you would need capital of R480 000. Or put differently, every R1 million you have saved can safely produce an income of R2 000 if you have a 30-year horizon. The importance of the first 10 years This may sound extreme, but Coetzee emphasised that, particularly in the current market environment, it becomes risky drawing at higher levels. This is because it is very likely that the next ten years will deliver below-average returns, and this will have a significant impact on outcomes. “The historical analysis shows us that the return you get in the first ten years after retirement has a significant correlation to what you can draw form the starting point,” Coetzee explained. “The difficulty we are facing today is that we are heading into one of the most difficult periods we have seen.” To illustrate the likely impact of a low-return environment, he showed what would have happened to someone who retired in 1969. The following ten years delivered poor returns, which makes it a good comparison. If someone who retired at that point and drew 5% in year one, then increased that every year for inflation, they would have failed after 21 years. In other words, their money would no longer be able to provide them with inflation-beating income growth from that point, and it’s likely that it would run out completely within just a few more years. More broadly, looking at all the instances from 1900 where retirees saw below average returns in their first ten years, the probability of failure looks like this: Source: Marriott This shows that even at a 5% initial draw down increasing for inflation every year, there is almost a 50% chance that their retirement funding will not last 30 years. Again, it’s worth emphasising that this 5% if before fees. Coetzee argued that one of the best ways to mitigate this is to ensure that you never have to touch your capital. Find solutions that pay a reliable and growing income. “Our approach to saving is all wrong,” he said. “ We need to think about monthly income, not net worth. Looking for a total return, which I can’t predict is not working for me. I rather have to understand what my capital can give me because that income is more certain.”