A rule of thumb widely used in the retirement industry suggests that you should aim to save enough money to earn a gross retirement income equal to 75% of your final gross income immediately prior to retirement. While working, a person’s gross income is used for consumption, to save (mostly for retirement) and to pay tax. Targeting an income replacement ratio of 75% in retirement (instead of 100%) is premised on the assumption that a retired individual will stop saving for retirement and pay less tax. However, this is a fairly crude target that may not be appropriate for everyone and may be difficult to understand. Source: Joanna Legutko, Dean Bunce & Emiel Zyde – UCT (IRR = income replacement ratio) Joanna Legutko, head of actuarial science at the University of Cape Town, says telling someone that her income will drop by 60% (for example) in retirement before tax and savings are taken into account, makes it quite difficult to figure out if the income will be sufficient. She argues that it is easier for people to relate to the money that is deposited into their bank accounts each month. Telling someone that his or her disposable income will drop by 20% (for example) in retirement makes it much easier for them to determine how to adjust their living standard accordingly. Using a consumption replacement ratio (consumption in retirement as a percentage of consumption prior to retirement) is a better measure of financial readiness for retirement. It is individualised for the person, takes into account how much they are actually saving and how much tax they are actually paying instead of crudely assuming that everyone is the same, she says. “It is a more accurate and intimately understandable communication of whether your retirement savings are adequate or how inadequate they are.” Legutko says her worry is that the income replacement ratio consistently overestimates or underestimates whether people are ready for retirement and may create a false sense of security or alarm. “My basic premise is that if we take away the tax and the savings and just compare what is left over after that, then we have a slightly better way of trying to gauge how your living standard changes on retirement.” While a retiree’s consumption would be highly dependent on personal circumstances (spending may increase due to more travel or medical expenses or decrease as a result of less work-related costs), people should generally target a 100% consumption replacement ratio. In other words, they should plan to have enough money to maintain the same living standard or consumption pattern in retirement. How this plays out in reality  To determine how this could affect South Africans saving for retirement, Legutko analysed actual data from a local defined contribution pension fund. The fund has almost 5 000 members who are broadly divided into low-, middle- and high-income earners. The average member is roughly in his/her mid-forties. As is typically the case in pension funds, lower income earners contributed a smaller percentage of their remuneration to the fund, in an effort to maximise their take-home pay and make ends meet. In this case, low-income workers contributed on average 10.5% of their cost of employment to the fund, middle-income workers 13.7% and high-income earners 15.4%. Using various assumptions about annual salary increases, tax hikes, and investment returns, Legutko calculated that the average income replacement ratio of the fund was 30%, with only 26 members achieving the targeted 75%. Low-income earners were particularly vulnerable with an average income replacement ratio of 18%. (These numbers however do not include any savings outside the fund, and therefore may be understating the replacement ratios.) When the consumption replacement ratio was calculated for the same group of people, the average improved to 39% (bear in mind the target also increased to 100%). Only 16 of the fund’s members were in a position where they were projected to maintain the same living standard in retirement (replace 100% of their consumption). Legutko says a consumption replacement ratio of 39% is quite easy for people to understand. If someone had R100 a month to cover their current expenses, and continued saving and investing for retirement the way they did, they would only receive R39 to cover consumption in retirement. “What you get into your bank account is what you budget with. So knowing how your pension relates to that as opposed to your gross income, I think is better.” Interestingly, the research highlighted that for 42% of the members, targeting a 75% income replacement ratio would be too low, based on their consumption pattern or living standard. For 44% it was adequate and 13% could target a lower percentage. Source: Joanna Legutko, Dean Bunce & Emiel Zyde – UCT Legutko says because the income replacement ratio crudely accounts for tax and savings of about 25%, 75% is a reasonable target in general, but it is not the right number for everybody. “Particularly for lower-income workers that target needs to be higher and for higher-income workers who are saving a lot that target can be lower. “We could do better in terms of doing a calculation that excludes savings and tax and give people a communication that is closer to reality [and] to what they are actually going to achieve.” The fact that the income replacement ratio might be too low for lower income workers relates to the fact that they generally pay less tax, contribute less to the pension fund and make more conservative investment choices. These individuals live closer to the breadline and need more money to take home, but as a result of that they don’t save enough for retirement, Legutko explains. One way of improving this situation, could be through a universal social old age grant. If every South African received the grant – currently R1 600 a month – and this amount was included in the consumption calculated after retirement, the average consumption replacement ratio in the fund increased to 47%. Legutko says the old age grant – particularly one that is available without the means test – addresses the security of low-income earners in retirement quite well.