Old Mutual is to retain a 19.9% stake in Nedbank so as to continue a strategic commercial relationship with the banking group after its split. Old Mutual Plc (PLC), listed in both Johannesburg and London, announced plans to break the group up into four standalone businesses – Old Mutual Emerging Markets (OMEM), Old Mutual Wealth (OMW), Old Mutual Asset Management (OMAM) and Nedbank – in March 2016. At an investment showcase in Johannesburg, the insurance group said it remains on track, pending regulatory approval, to complete the bulk of its managed separation by the end of 2018. As part of the breakup, it will list Old Mutual Limited (OML) and OMW in both Johannesburg and London at the “earliest opportunity” in 2018. It is expected to incur one-off advisory and listing costs of at least £100 million and will issue pre-listing statements related to the entities after reporting PLC’s 2017 financial results in March next year. OML, a newly-formed South African holding company, will house OMEM’s assets as well as the Nedbank stake and PLC’s residual interests following the split. At the time of listing OML will hold PLC’s current 54% stake in Nedbank, which will then be unbundled to a minority 19.9% stake. “It is clearly important for Nedbank, that after the listing of OML, the shareholder base of OML has time to season so that flowback in the unbundling is minimised and shareholders of OML are in effect shareholders in waiting for the Nedbank distribution and they should have no economic reason to sell their shares,” said Mike Brown, chief executive of Nedbank. Peter Moyo, chief executive of OMEM and chief executive designate of OML, said the agreed upon 19.9% stake was a number that both Old Mutual and Nedbank were “comfortable”, without providing detail as to the rationale behind the number. For Nedbank, business will continue as per usual with Old Mutual’s managed separation set to have no impact on the banking group’s strategy, operations, technology, staff or clients. Brown said Nedbank and Old Mutual’s joint synergy target of R1 billion by 2017 remains on track with around 30% of the target accruing to Nedbank. The unbundling will also not impact the on-going collaboration between Nedbank and Old Mutual. Currently, Nedbank develops and supplies bancassurance products to clients through its network of financial planners, with Old Mutual acting as preferred product provider on complex risk products. Of all the products, including investment and insurance products, sold through Nedbank’s financial planners more than 50% comprise Nedbank’s own products with the bulk of the remainder being Old Mutual products, Brown said in response to a question. In 2016, PLC said that managed separation would unlock value for shareholders by eliminating the regulatory and financial burdens associated with running a complex multinational financial services group. The elimination of the group structure is also expected to result in more efficient funding for future growth for the individual businesses, thereby allowing them to realise their full potential. Bruce Hemphill, chief executive of Old Mutual PLC, said the standalone businesses, particularly in Africa, are well positioned to take advantage of changing demographics and increasing demand for financial services. “It is really important that the leadership teams deliver step changes in the performance of these franchises. And I think that the steps that they have already taken demonstrate that they can and will do so. “I am a firm believer that once management is freed from the shackles of a conglomerate structure, they become more dynamic, they become more disciplined as a result of direct market scrutiny. More often than not this results in better operational performance and I believe this will yield shareholder value and secure the successful operational future of these businesses,” he said. Shares in Old Mutual and Nedbank both closed marginally higher, gaining 1.01% to R36.02 per share and 0.98% to R209.41 per share respectively.  