An independent report, commissioned by National Treasury, attempts to quantify “black ownership relative to the value of JSE-listed companies” and suggests that previous estimates were on the high side. It estimates that BEE ownership is at 9% of total JSE market capitalisation, from a previous widely-quoted estimate of 10%, while black ownership through institutional funds is 11%, versus the previously cited 13%. In its methodology, it describes ‘BEE ownership’ as total ownership by black South Africans (as per the BEE codes), including empowerment schemes/structures and direct ownership. The “market value” as defined in the study is R5.497 trillion: South African companies dematerialised on Strate (the country’s central securities depository) as at end-2016. This means black (‘BEE’) ownership is R495 billion, while black ownership through institutional funds is R605 billion. The previous total, with black South Africans “holding at least 23% of the Top 100 companies listed on the JSE”, has been held up by the exchange as the most accurate figure, based on research it announced in 2015. That study, conducted by Alternative Prosperity, was the most recent on the matter and used data to the end of 2013. At that stage, it held that aside from the 23%, white South Africans held 22% (directly and indirectly), with foreign investors holding about 39%. It had yet to analyse the remaining 16%. One of the major differences between the draft report, published on October 9 by Treasury1, and the JSE/Alternative Prosperity study is that the former excludes cross holdings, which results in a smaller market capitalisation. The report, compiled by Lynne Thomas, “an independent researcher and consultant, formerly with the Centre for Research in Economics and Finance in Southern Africa at the London School of Economics”, deliberately includes “all forms of ownership, including the concentration of corporate ownership that can occur through cross-holdings”. It further proposes an ‘Ownership Monitor’ for “tracking trends in the composition of ownership over time”. As a base, it provides a breakdown of the “broad composition of ownership” as well as types of major shareholders, which own 5% or more of a company’s shares (excluding foreign-domiciled entities listed on the JSE). Given that it commissioned the study, one would imagine Treasury may intend to use this as a definitive or authoritative source of data in future. At as December 2016 The report for Treasury makes the point that the “estimate of black ownership through institutional funds is not directly comparable with the estimate of institutional ownership of JSE-listed companies” shown in the table above. The table above has a direct relationship with the R5.5 trillion total market cap, however, meaning that foreign investors hold R2.1 trillion in SA companies (excluding foreign-domiciled JSE listings) while local institutional investors hold about R2.6 trillion. “The vested rights of black versus non-black beneficiaries does not necessarily add up to the total holdings of South African institutional investors as shown… for two main reasons. First, there will be some component of ownership through institutional funds where the population group of the fund member or policy holder cannot be identified. Second, assets held in excess of the vested rights of members or policy holders are deemed to be owned by the institutional investor. For these reasons, it should not be assumed that non-black beneficiaries own the difference between the total institutional ownership reported in [the above table] and the ownership by black beneficiaries” as described below. The “BEE” component of the Ownership Monitor includes “BEE ownership achieved through transactions at subsidiary level, and direct black retail holdings. The percentage reflects ownership as measured according to the B-BBEE Codes, as opposed to a narrow measure of BEE ownership of the listed entity itself”. Neither study is able to quantify direct ownership by race group with any great degree of conviction. The report for Treasury makes the points that “the ownership of South African companies by standard population groups is not currently measured”. However, the JSE/Alternative Prosperity study estimates that 24% of investments across the Top 100 were direct, with “less than a third… owned by individuals with portfolios (or 7% of the total equity capital) made up by black (less than 1% of the Top 100 by value) and white (about 6%)”. The Ownership Monitor does not offer an estimate in this regard, but says “reportedly, this is a small component”. In a follow-up statement in 2015, the JSE said: “Insofar as the direct investment that black South Africans hold in listed entities on the JSE, we roughly concur that the holding is 3%. When direct and indirect holdings are included as a value of the Top 100 listed entities on the JSE, the figure is 23%.” These figure shows just how small the retail investor base is in the country. A separate analysis, using total dematerialised shares in issue (±200 billion at end-June), finds that South African retail investors own just 4% of the value. This is based on data from Strate.  Data included in the South African Reserve Bank Quarterly Review (September), shows that of the JSE Top 40, that number remains the same at 4%, while the local institutional shareholding is 52% (with foreign ownership of 44%). Treasury invited comments on the draft ownership report. A final version is likely to be released. Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at hilton@moneyweb.co.za. 1 The report, Ownership of JSE-listed companies: Research Report for National Treasury, carries a September date but was made available by Treasury on October 9 2017.