Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today. Powell Fed President Donald Trump plans to nominate Federal Reserve governor Jerome Powell as the next chair of the US central bank, according to four people familiar with the decision. Markets deem Powell as the continuity candidate, with his public pronouncements largely in line with Janet Yellen’s policies. Trump will make the formal announcement in the Rose Garden at 3pm Eastern Time. BOE hike? The Bank of England is widely expected to raise interest rates for the first time in over a decade when it announces its latest monetary-policy decision at 8:00 am. With only eight of the 60 economists polled by Bloomberg expecting no change at today’s meeting, market reaction to a hike should be relatively muted. The broader question remains as to whether higher interest rates are what the UK economy needs ahead of Brexit.  Phase out The GOP tax plan is expected to be unveiled later today, with one Republican lawmaker familiar with the negotiations on the text of the document saying that the key corporate tax cut from 35% to 20% will be phased out after a decade. For individuals, there will be tax cuts for most, except for earners at the very top of the scale, with the 39.6% tax rate remaining. There’s also a plan to impose a tax of as much as 12% on multinational companies’ accumulated offshore earnings. Markets quiet Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2%, while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.4% higher, boosted by automakers ahead of a three-day weekend. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.1% lower at 5:45 am amid mixed earnings results, with investors also braced for the BOE decision. S&P 500 futures slipped 0.1%, the 10-year Treasury yield was at 2.372% and gold was unchanged.  Earnings Apple is due to release fourth-quarter earnings after the bell today, with investors likely to focus on any updates on iPhone X production delays. Tesla shares are down about 6% in pre-market trading after the company pushed back its production schedule for the key Model 3 car in its results announcement yesterday. Facebook shares are also trading lower ahead of the open as the company’s guidance disappointed investors.  © 2017 Bloomberg