Extending government-backed loans to students for tertiary education in SA may pose an enormous risk to state coffers. The key recommendation from the report by the commission of inquiry into free higher education and training – headed by retired judge Jonathan Heher – is for tertiary education to be funded through government-guaranteed loans sourced from commercial banks. This funding model would be available to all undergraduate and postgraduate students, irrespective of their background and family household income, across SA’s 26 universities for the full cost of study. Loan repayments would only kick in when students graduate and start earning an unspecified annual salary, but one that is “appropriate to a repayment obligation”. This is the antithesis of conventional bank loans that require borrowers to repay loans regardless of their financial capacity to do so. Should students fail to repay the loan after graduating and reaching the required income threshold, government would assume the liability of the loan. Effectively, government would have to purchase the loan from commercial banks and take on the liability, which is the nub of how guaranteed loans by a third party work. Market watchers have already raised concerns about government’s ability to foot the loan bill at a time when the fiscus grapples with a R50.8 billion budget shortfall amid an increasing reluctance by the populace to pay taxes. And with economic growth stuttering at 0.7% in 2017 and a projected 1.2% in 2018, the state’s ability to fulfill wholesale service delivery is limited. Sizwe Nxasana, chairman of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme, believes government-guaranteed loans will not be sustainable. “The fact of the matter is that the government is taking 100% of the credit risk. The problem is that there isn’t enough capacity for government to take on the risk associated with non-performing loans that might arise when students don’t repay,” Nxasana said in an interview with Moneyweb. Sizwe Nxasana, chairman of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme. Picture: Moneyweb To minimise the risk of defaults, the Heher report said the South African Revenue Service should be involved in the system, enabling the government to track owing graduates through their income tax payments to determine if they have the means to repay loans. Nxasana has instead proposed a hybrid (or private and public) funding model like the Ikusasa Student Financial Aid Programme (ISFAP), a pilot fundraising initiative launched in 2017 at selected universities. ISFAP has raised over R140 million through public grants and donations from private companies to provide loans and grants to students — particularly those in the so-called “missing middle”, who cannot afford the cost of tertiary education and don’t qualify for loans. Under this model, loans are not 100% guaranteed by the government but are partially backed by the equity contributions from the private sector and government. “This risk sharing model makes it easy to fund more students.” The interest charged on loans is below prime and students are encouraged to repay the loans within 15 years after they are employed. Nxasana said offering government-guaranteed financial assistance to all students, irrespective of their household income, is problematic. “The bank risk appetite would favour students who can afford it because they are perceived to have better chances of success and employability than poor students,” he said. “By having a loan system that does not look at the actual needs of a student, there would be an unintended consequence of favouring students that actually don’t need the money.” Are banks keen? The big question is whether banks would have the appetite to collaborate with the government. Nxasana, the former CEO of FirstRand, disagreed. “The fact that you have a guarantee from the government doesn’t mean that a bank would ordinarily grant a loan especially if the risk of default is high,” he said. Banks also have to be mindful of SA’s university dropout rate, which would likely spur the rate of loan defaults, he added. The banking industry is willing to negotiate with the government to see how it would offer loans to students, said Cas Coovadia, MD of the Banking Association SA. “The differentiation between qualifying students and those who don’t qualify is a good start. The country cannot afford free education for everybody and we need to look at it through the context of the economy,” said Coovadia. Granting loans would also depend on the risk profile and business model of banks, as they have a mandate of making profits from loans that they extend, he said. If the Heher recommendations are adopted as national policy, the government would have to negotiate with banks to determine interest rates charged, the income threshold upon which loans can be repaid and duration of loans. The government delegation in negotiations would include President Jacob Zuma and an inter-ministerial committee – led by Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe, and the presidential fiscal committee, led by Minister of Finance Malusi Gigaba. University dropout rates and loan defaults The Heher report includes discussion documents on government-backed loan models that are already adopted in the US, England and Australia. For example, loans are payable in Australia once graduates earn more than R570 000 per year and pay 8% of their monthly salary towards monthly loan repayments. Although there is no maximum period to repay loans, the average duration in Australia is eight years. It would be futile for SA to adopt the Australian model, said Nxasana, as it doesn’t consider that the average loan default rate in first world countries is about 50% and there is a higher pass and graduation rate. “In our conditions, dropout rates are high, which means the probable default rate is actually going to be above 50% even if you use the tax system for collections.” The Department of Higher Education released a report in 2015 indicating that 47.9% of university students did not complete their degrees. This is the most recent figure from a government entity. What is more encouraging is that the Heher report recognises that access to higher education is a constitutional right that must be afforded to all citizens. Although it rules out the feasibility of fee-free education, it’s a glaring reminder that SA has a bigger issue – the poor quality of basic education. As Dr Louise van Rhyn, the founder of social transformation organisation Symphonia for SA, puts it: “the long-term solution is definitely to ensure that our basic education system is fixed. We have a massive dropout rate in higher education because young people don’t have foundational knowledge.”