A group of academics at the University of Pretoria is developing an alternative credit rating indicator, with a view to benchmark decisions taken by ratings agencies. In developing the index, the team aims to quantify the weighting of subjective factors – including political risk – that influence ratings decisions, said Dr Conrad Beyers, Barclays Africa Chair in Actuarial Science at the University of Pretoria. “When one tries to replicate the decisions of ratings agencies, one sees that there is an element – especially for developing countries – that cannot explain the decisions being made. And of course, they say, themselves, that they use some subjective factors to make their decision. We are trying in one way to quantify how big the subjective factor being used is. “The ratings agencies also declare their general methodologies that they use to arrive at their ratings but at some point, it is a so-called black box and we don’t really know how they get to their decisions. We feel the need to just be able to say, in some way, whether we agree with a decision or not.” He cited significant strength in the rand and a higher demand for South African bonds following S&P’s decision to downgrade the local currency rating to sub-investment grade and cut the foreign currency rating further into sub-investment grade territory as signs that investors viewed the downgrade with scepticism. Read: A further downgrade and what it means Fitch also rates the country’s debt at sub-investment grade. Moody’s has affirmed its rating one notch above junk but has placed the country on downgrade review. Although different ratings agencies use different methodologies to come to decisions, the alternative model should – through the use of data – be able identify the factors behind discrepancies in ratings. “It is a very complex question to predict the probability that a country might default on its debt. It’s a very difficult question and one would not expect everybody that tries to answer that question to arrive at the same answer. But, at least, one would like to – in some way – independently verify those decisions,” he said.   He added that the group would seek to answer whether it agrees with the decisions taken by ratings agencies based on available data, whether it would arrive at the same decision by inputting the data into its own model and if not, where the differences lie. The academics – from disciplines including economists, actuaries and data scientists – have been working on the model for two years. Beyers, said the study is divided into three phases: understanding how ratings agencies arrived at their decisions, determining how accurate ratings agencies are in the ability to predict defaults based on historic data and to improve of the first two components in order to better predict the probability of default. The group is currently in the third phase, which it hopes to finish next year. It is hoped that the alternative index, when ready for use, can be used both within a South African and global context. He said the team has not discussed its work with the ratings agencies and it seeks to maintain an independent perspective.