Nedbank’s payment systems experienced a temporary crash during today’s Black Friday sales. The bank said it is trying to find the root cause of the problem, but do not anticipate any further difficulties. Spokesperson for Nedbank Sharda Naidoo told Moneyweb in an e-mailed response that the industry experienced issues with transactions being declined between 8:30 and 10:00am. She added that some Nedbank customers also experienced intermittent disruption to service. However, services were fully restored after with no further difficulty anticipated.    “All services were fully restored around 10am and we do not anticipate any further disruptions,” she said. Payments Association of South Africa (Pasa), said that they were aware that Nedbank experienced internal challenges earlier, but do not attribute it to Black Friday volumes. Pasa CEO Walter Volker confirmed that the interbank payment system was performing well and did not have any incidents. “We want to reiterate that the interbank payment system is stable and coping well with Black Friday volumes,” said Volker in an emailed response. Naidoo said they anticipate high volume periods throughout the year and do run continuous tests to ensure the efficiency of their systems, however today’s system failure is still being investigated. “We are investigating the root cause of today’s problem internally and with industry partners.” FNB spokesperson Senzi Dlamini, confirmed that all its systems are fully operational, and have not experienced any issues resulting from high transaction volumes. Retailers all over the country prepared for high volumes of Black Friday sales ahead of the Festive Season. Many online retailers crashed during the early hours due to high transaction volumes or IT infrastructure that is unable to handle the influx of payments. Online retailer, Takealot.com, as well as The Foschini Group, crashed in the early hours of Friday. Takealot apologised to its customers on its Twitter page. “The Takealot website and apps are temporarily down due to overwhelming volumes. We’re working hard to resolve the issue and we hope to have the site operational as soon as possible. We apologise for any disappointment and we’ll have you back shopping asap.” The retailer told its customers that, due to the downtime, its sale will last for five days.