FNB has tweaked its eBucks rewards programme, introducing new ways to earn points and adjusting existing ways to do so. Changes take effect from July 1, with no drastic overhaul since the Gold and Easy account changes of 2016 (when the focus shifted from points to product groups). Johan Moolman, CEO of eBucks Rewards at FNB, says the bank wants to reward customers as much as possible because it knows it is rewarding for the right behaviour. If we reward the right behaviour, customers will stick with us. Since 2000, customers have earned R8.4 billion in eBucks, and spent R7.3 billion. FNB expects to &#8220;pay out&#8221; R1.5 billion in eBucks to customers in FirstRand s next financial year (July 2017 to June 2018). Very simply, eBucks works as follows: in the case of Premier, Private Clients and Private Wealth accounts a change in behaviour links directly to points, which equate to reward levels one through five. In the case of Gold accounts and the Easy Bundle, behaviour change links directly to reward levels across product groups. Those reward levels then determine your reward rates. There are massive differences between these levels. If you re on level five on Premier, for example, you will earn 15% bank on fuel and Uber purchases, while level four will only earn you 7.5% (level one translates to just 0.5%). Moolman says customers should spend five to ten minutes and use the rewards calculator. It is quite simple to get to level five, he maintains. Premier On Premier (including the new Premier Fusion) accounts, FNB has changed the deposit rule under the qualifying criteria to be either R16 500 per month (in other words your salary) or R50 000 over three months. Moolman says the client base at this level in particular is becoming more self-employed . Points can now be collected for Bank Your Change, growing the balance of savings and investment accounts, spend on FNB Connect and FNB life insurance products (there is a significant push by the bank to grow this new segment of the business). Points are no longer collected for holding a Channel Islands offshore account (there wasn t enough demand among Premier accountholders) or for prepaid electricity purchases. This latter change suggests that margins for prepaid electricity purchases are under pressure. Moolman says the results from the qualifying requirement introduced last year where (under 60) Premier customers had to log in to the FNB app at least once a month proves the model: the programme drives behaviour change. App linkages [to online banking profiles] doubled from month one, he says. And that trend has continued. He hints that the aim is to simplify the structure of the earn rules for Premier to product categories next year (and get rid of the points collection mechanism). Full breakdown of 2017/18 earn rules for Premier accountsPrivate ClientsWith Private Clients accounts, holding a Private Clients credit card is no longer a qualifying requirement instead, customers will collect points for using their credit card, and can t reach Level 4 unless they have one). FNB s Moolman suggests that some of these customers prefer to have their credit cards elsewhere , in what can only be a thinly veiled reference to Discovery Card (which FirstRand used to co-own). In a similar change to Premier, the deposit qualifying criteria has been expanded to include the option of R100 000 over three months (or the current monthly deposit of R32 500). A wealth management points collection category has been introduced (and includes points for the Channel Islands account). Most other changes are similar to Premier (including the life insurance push), but with generally with higher thresholds.Full breakdown of 2017/18 earn rules for Private Clients accountsGoldOn Gold accounts, customers have to hold a cheque account (they can no longer earn from just a credit card), with a minimum monthly deposit of R5 500. Furthermore, they have to log into any of the bank s electronic channels (online/app/mobile) at least once a month. FNB has consolidated the product (reward level) groups introduced last year into seven (from eight). Ryan Prozesky, CEO of FNB Value Banking Solutions, says the bank has kept the simplicity of the structure, but given customers more ways to move up . Instead of having a single criteria in each group, there are now at least two per reward level group. For example, on the My cheque account group, customers can either have at least three debit orders per month or ensure that their card swipes and/or Cash@Till withdrawals exceed those made at ATMs (and branches).Full breakdown of 2017/18 earn rules for Gold accountsEasy BundleHere, clients on the Easy Pay-As-You-Use pricing option no longer earn cashback rewards (as opposed to eBucks). Moolman says there is simply not enough disposable income in that base to take up so many different product groups . Earning on the Easy Bundle account stays exactly the same. Holding/using any of the eight product groups moves you up a level. Effectively, you need to hold/use five of them to be at the maximum reward level. FNB s Moolman says since introducing this last year, the behaviour change has been clearly evident.Full breakdown of 2017/18 earn rules for Easy Bundle and Classic Credit Card accounts