There are more than enough reasons to be pessimistic about the state of the South African economy. Add to that a market that has broadly been flat for three years (and is increasingly a proxy for a single share), and one quickly runs out of reasons to feel hopeful about the future.But, as experienced investors will tell you, these are precisely the times when opportunities present themselves.Writing in the commentary to RECM &amp; Calibre s annual results, executive directors Piet Viljoen and Jan van Niekerk make the point, rather bluntly: Today, despite all the negative sentiment around South Africa, we are optimistic about the future. We are fully invested, with a portfolio of good businesses run by good people, acquired at good prices .The partners continue: We spend almost no time thinking about the economy, as our managers are more than smart and tenacious enough to deal with the economic challenges and opportunities they face. All we know is that as with all cycles, this negative one will also come to an end. Sometimes we want things that just don t matter, but we believe markets will always give us what we need good assets at the right price, run by people who we admire. Negative economic environments increase the odds of this happening. In the meantime, we have secured debt funding to grow our asset base, if and when we come across more such opportunities.Viljoen and Van Niekerk make the point that they receive an increasing amount of phone calls around new investment opportunities .This was echoed, with a fair amount of colour, by PSG Group chief executive Piet Mouton at its AGM on Friday. Mouton said the group had R1.7 billion available for new investments in subsidiary PSG Alpha (see PSG war chest to be deployed soon).Mouton said that while it was easier to grow companies while the economy is growing , the current environment was throwing up interesting opportunities.In his mind, the solution to our country s problems is, simply, political stability. Dealing with the following problems are key:This will boost business confidence, attract local and foreign investment and create jobs (and produce profits, taxes and dividends which will drive confidence; a virtuous cycle). Mouton added, diplomatically, that this is not the current reality in the country but cautioned later that being negative in public is not going to solve matters. Regardless, he said, PSG Group companies have the best management teams with low market shares and better operating models. With the appropriate gearing, this leads to growth.But, given recent sovereign downgrades, Mouton says we should pay attention to levels of debt. This is echoed by chairman Jannie Mouton, who writes in the group s annual report: Highly-geared individuals and companies will suffer most. Mouton (senior) adds No one knows how long the current circumstances will prevail, so you may just miss the boat by doing nothing until such time there is improvement. In the words of Warren Buffett: &#8216;Be fearful when others are greedy. Be greedy when others are fearful&#8217; I certainly do not see a lot of people/businesses being greedy at present! Prior to the parent s AGM update, Francois Gouws, chief executive of PSG Konsult, its wealth and asset management and insurance business, said that in the context of the market having gone more or less nowhere over the past three or so years , it is vital to continue to encourage clients to look forward .He added, that in his experiences with clients, investors are very negative and exceptionally fearful .But, despite this fear and the discontinuities perhaps precisely in spite of these there are countless opportunities and the group has never been more excited . Konsult intends to lead consolidation in the financial advisor space. That s a market that has traditionally been very fragmented but with added compliance demands, PSG s model where it provides support with regulation, compliance, systems and expertise makes sense.