The financial world is full of terms that make people&#8217;s eyes glaze over. There is so much complexity that a lot of it becomes meaningless to the man in the street.One term that South Africans should however take a moment to understand is the Retail Distribution Review, or RDR. Its lengthy and delayed implementation has unfortunately done it no favours, but it is a highly significant development that will fundamentally change the relationship clients have with their financial advisors. We know that financial advisors are regarded as expensive, some consumers don t feel that they are treated fairly, and they often don&#8217;t understand what they are buying or paying for, says Lizl Budhram, the head of advice at Old Mutual Personal Finance. The whole purpose of RDR is to create better clarity and allow consumers to be better informed. The core intention of RDR is to remove the conflicts of interest that have always been inherent in the way advice is given in South Africa. Quite simply, until recently, the systemic use of commissions meant that advisors were essentially paid by product providers insurers and asset managers and not their clients.This is obviously flawed as the person the advisor should be serving is the one sitting across the table from them, not the company whose product they are selling. As market conduct strategy advisor at the Financial Services Board (FSB), Leanne Jackson, explains, reviewing this model is necessary to foreground the client&#8217;s needs. The intent is not to create a dramatically different experience so much as to ensure that the actual outcomes achieved are improved, Jackson says.At the same time, however, this must change the way that people think about their advisors. Many professionals market their advice as &#8216;free&#8217;, since the client doesn&#8217;t actually pay for it directly. It is included in the cost of the product. But that just diminishes what advisors do. One of the concerns of the current framework is that it disguises the value of really good advice, says Jackson. Good advisors should be in a position to demonstrate value and sell that value. Brian Foster, a financial planner and the co-founder of consulting firm Beyond RDR, says that clients and advisors alike should recognise the opportunity this presents. Because the industry has trained advisors and incentivised them through the commission model, the conversations clients tend to have with advisors are about products, says Foster. And whilst products are necessary some of the time, they are not always necessary all of the time. This has led to a situation where conversations between advisors and their clients have been mostly transactional, so clients only see value in the product and not in the planning relationship. The problem is that financial advisors are currently only being paid for the least valuable part of the process, Foster says. They are giving away all of their value in terms of the planning conversations that they should be having with people, and which the public generally wants to have, because financial advisors have never had to be paid for that before. Clients need to recognise that this is where the value really is, and be prepared to pay for it, and advisors need to get better at showing people the difference that good financial planning makes to their lives. These are the discussions about what clients want from life and how to plan for that future. These lead to a holistic understanding of the client&#8217;s needs and how to provide them them.RDR also aims to ensure that the clients have far better understanding of the costs involved. What RDR will create is a separation of services and products, with more transparency in terms of what I would like to buy and what I will be paying, explains Budhram. At the moment costs are often not very transparent and consumers aren&#8217;t clear on what they are paying and why. Generally advisors need to have much more transparent conversations to explain what is the initial service they are offering, what is the ongoing service and what is the cost. That in turn puts the consumer in a position where they can choose what they want to buy. This transparency must also lead to better outcomes. Customers must not only understand what they are paying in exchange for what services they will be receiving, but also what the impact of those fees will be on their investment, says Jackson. And they must be comfortable that what they are getting from their advisor is worth the cost. This does not however necessarily mean that clients will have to hand over payment directly to their advisors. Direct payment will be permitted, if that is what is agreed between the customer and the advisor, but product providers will also be required to deduct the value of the advice fee from the value of the investments or premiums being paid if that&#8217;s what the client wants, explains Jackson. What&#8217;s important, however, is that the client must be in charge of that process. It&#8217;s only when the client has given the instruction that &#8216;this is what I have agreed with my financial advisor&#8217; that the product provider can go ahead and deduct. 