The return on three-year inflation-linked RSA Retail Savings Bonds jumped to 3% in June, the highest rate in almost nine years, data from National Treasury show.Between December 2016 and May 2017, the same investment offered a return of 1.75%.Interest rates on RSA Retail Savings Bonds are calculated from the larger government bonds that have similar maturities. The inflation-linked bond curve is inverted at the moment due to very high demand on the long end of the curve, which is causing a depression in prices, National Treasury says.The only other time the interest rates offered on three-year inflation-linked bonds were higher over the past decade was between December 2007 and May 2008 when it reached 3.25%. During this period the three-year rate was also higher than the 10-year rate for the same reason, Treasury says.The inflation-linked rate on the ten-year RSA Retail Savings Bond is currently 2.5%.Treasury says the risk profile of retail bonds has not changed. This is not a reflection of more risk taken on by investors. RSA Retail Savings Bonds were first introduced over a decade ago to encourage South Africans to save and to allow government to diversify its debt mix. Fixed-Rate Retail Savings Bonds with two-, three- and five-year maturities as well as Inflation-linked Retail Savings Bonds with three-, five- and ten-year maturities are available. The most popular instrument the five-year Fixed Rate Retail Savings Bond currently offers 8.25% interest per annum.Around R8.2 billion is invested in RSA Retail Savings Bonds, roughly 0.4% of the overall money government has raised in the bond market.Retail Savings Bonds are particularly popular among pensioners due to their relatively low risk and above-inflation return profile. The vast majority of investors are pensioners. Almost 60% of investors are 70 years or older, while 25% are between 60 and 69 years old. The majority of investors are women.While withdrawals are allowed, a penalty is levied if this option is chosen. For early withdrawals where the investment is less than 12 months old the full interest earned is forfeited and investors effectively receive the capital they have invested. Where investments are 12 months and older, the penalty will be equal to the average of the total interest received.During times of a spike in interest rates, a lot of investors choose to take advantage of the higher rate and restart their investments.