JESSICA HUBBARD: Hello and welcome to this Moneyweb feature on the business of advertising. My name is Jessica Hubbard and my guest today is Chris Brewer, founder of Brewer s Advertising Data. Chris will be speaking at the upcoming Future of Advertising Conference taking place in Johannesburg on June 13 and 14. Chris, thank so much for joining us today.CHRIS BREWER: An absolute pleasure.JESSICA HUBBARD: Chris, let&#8217;s start with the bigger picture. How would you describe the ad industry in South Africa today?CHRIS BREWER: The ad industry today is facing a full crisis of its own making in many cases. First off, the South African Research Foundation has closed and now I think kind of re-opened again.The Advertising Standards Authority, ASA, is on the brink of closing down, which is a bit of tragedy, if you ask me, because they were put under a lot of pressure. They were the watchdog of the industry. They used to prevent certain ads from being published inappropriate or unhealthy or promoting all the bad stuff. Sadly they had a few big court cases which a couple of the major I just say companies, I don t want to mention any specific ones companies actually took them to court, win or lose, and the ASA had to lose because when you go to court and you are faced with half a million rands worth of legal fees, you don t stand much chance really. And then they ruled that the ASA is not a statutory body, which in fact just renders them pretty much useless. So that s a great shame. Ad spend is slowing down. In the USA they are predicting a drop down to 1.8% growth. However, we are seeing signs of high impact, and some gloriously creative advertisements. The advertising industry has always been a very dynamic industry and it reacts to change. It truly is pliable. It can react to just about [anything]. JESSICA HUBBARD: So how would say our industry is responding to all these changes? Are they becoming more agile and creative, more responsive?CHRIS BREWER: I&#8217;ve seen some great ads coming up, great advertising, and great advertising campaigns coming out. But that s only a small proportion. I see a great deal of mediocre ads and a huge proportion of bad media planning. I expect you ve seen it yourself, and I&#8217;m sure your listeners and readers do as well. On one channel on TV, you ll see the same ad over and over and over again.That s because the TV channels are offering such ridiculous deals that it&#8217;s just making a mockery of good media planning. Of course you get reader and viewer fatigue when you broadcast an ad for too long. So that s a bad thing.But I do see great growth for advertising. It&#8217;s the wheels that keep industry going. There are a couple of very nasty things happening and coming our way, and that the future of banning and buying of ads, and also government intervention, which I don t like. And the government intervention of course comes as a direct result of the ASA closing down and banning the South African Research Federation.JESSICA HUBBARD: So when will that come into play? When will the government intervention factor actually start impacting the way ad industries operate?CHRIS BREWER: They will certainly be able to affect the way advertising agencies operate, except for BEE status. What they can do, they can ban products like cigarettes from being advertised. There s a kind of curious side story to that, because if you stop to think about who was behind the banning of the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco, if you dig deep enough, you&#8217;ll find that the cigarette companies weren t unhappy with that decision. What happens is the moment you ban cigarette advertising, then the cigarette companies stop spending enormous money on advertising. The only reason they spent money on advertising was to promote product change, brand-switching and so on. When they banned cigarette advertising cigarette usage didn t drop at all. In fact, among some groups it climbed dramatically for a couple of years. That was a stupid idea.But, what the government did do, to give it credit, it started introducing laws delimiting the places where you can&#8217;t smoke, such as public places and private places as well pubs, clubs and so on, which is a good thing. That has reduced the number of smokers.But you only look at the international profits of the tobacco companies. If you d invested money in them years ago, even after the ban, you d be well ahead in your investment because people want to smoke. So the banning of the ads was stupid. The banning of alcohol, which is going to happen very soon apparently there is time on that. I was on a show a couple of years ago with an absolute lunatic who reckoned if a sportsman, or let s say a cricket player, had a Castle Lager logo on in his chest, a 12-year-old would be tempted to go and [get] a beer, which is course you might be true maybe one case in a million. But it&#8217;s absolute nonsense. The advertising doesn t encourage people to do that sort of thing. It&#8217;s nonsense.But the tragedy is that they won&#8217;t stop alcohol consumption this way.JESSICA HUBBARD: So how do you think ad agencies and the companies behind these kinds of commodities should be planning and strategising? If these bans are on the way, how should they be preparing? What should the strategy be?CHRIS BREWER: You have to prepare for it. You have to invest more into social media. Another very good [strategy] one of my personal favourites is product placement. You might very well find that [the way] to stop people from drinking is to ban the advertising. But you can, if you are showing a show, whether it&#8217;s American, British or South African for that matter, and you have the hero of your show I can only think of one, quite an old one, Two and a Half Men with Charlie Sheen he used to drink a Corona beer. Now I don t how much that s worth in terms of advertising dollars, but it must be a great deal. That sticks in the mind. So while it&#8217;s not strictly advertising in the true sense of the word, it&#8217;s product placement and some of the brewers making a huge profit and they charge a lot of money to do that. In one of the Rocky movies, he asks his family what is the breakfast of champions, and the son says Wheaties , and he says, Right . And the sales of Wheaties went through the absolute roof. Now that s clever thinking.The thing is, you have to know. Everybody thought that once cigarettes were banned that advertising industries would go bust, and perhaps one or two of them did. But they resurface and they come back and now alcohol [advertising] will be banned and they ll make another plan. But, as I say, the advertising industry is resilient and it ll come back.There are other bans coming as well. Certainly they will ban coffee advertising at one stage, and junk food is most definitely on the cards. And here as well, the recent rise in popularity of cannabis that s another thing which might still fall into the industry. I don t know.JESSICA HUBBARD: Let&#8217;s just [pause] for a moment from cannabis, and let&#8217;s look at financial services advertising. What is your take on advertising in this sector at this moment? Do you see the banks and the major groups changing their strategies?CHRIS BREWER: All the financial industry has to do, they have to get their product comparable to other financial institutions. When I look at financial advertising, I get very confused. I don t know which is the best. It&#8217;s much the same as cellphone advertising which one do you go for? I don t know. For example, I have two bank accounts, one at one bank and one at another. The one bank I would say I think is about R500 or R600 a month in banking fees, and the other one, which is one of our major accounts, I&#8217;ve got a fee that s capped at R150. So it&#8217;s the same service, but different banks. How can one charge so much and the other one so little?By the way, I must say I think Allan Gray is producing some great advertising. I&#8217;m a great admirer of their work.JESSICA HUBBARD: Are you saying besides, for example, the strong work at Allan Gray, are you saying that these companies are actually failing to differentiate themselves through their advertising? It&#8217;s like people don t know what the different products or approaches really are.CHRIS BREWER: No, I think what&#8217;s happening is they are counter-productive. They all offer strange packages. You read one and think, well, that s good, and then you read the other from a competitive bank and it does seem better, but they ve left out one part. So they are all offering bits of the cake. One is offering two-fifths, one is offering four-fifths, one is offering one-twelfth, one is offering one-eighth. And so when I look at financial ads I get very confused. The whole financial services advertising seems to me to be not exactly a mess I think it&#8217;s confused. I think they should get back to basics and find out what their customers really want, and make their services perform accordingly, not confuse everybody. And of course I&#8217;m talking about the honourable institutions, not some of the charlatans that we see in the marketplace.Financial advertising I think could do with a lot of cooperation, perhaps, among maybe the agencies or whatever governing body it is that controls the financial services companies.JESSICA HUBBARD: That was Chris Brewer, founder of Brewers Advertising Data.Chris Brewer will be speaking at the Future of Advertising Conference in Johannesburg on the 13th and 14th of June 2017 . 