Multinational financial services firm Visa and coffee behemoth Starbucks are well placed to benefit from megatrends in global consumer markets, Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Securities has argued.Unpacking the firm s investment in both companies during a presentation in Johannesburg, research analyst Victor Mupunga, said with the exception of cheques, every form of non-cash transaction had increased over the past decade. The biggest beneficiaries had been debit and credit cards. Yet, only about 40% of global consumer spending was via electronic means, suggesting that there was still significant opportunity for growth.VisaAlthough Visa is broadly considered a financial institution, it is not a bank that takes deposits or lends money. Rather it provides a network that facilitates the movement of funds between consumers, retailers and their banks. For the use of its network, Visa earns a small percentage fee of the transaction from the merchant.The key drivers of Visa s revenue and earnings were increases in the number and size of transactions and both were strongly supported by the megatrend to non-cash transactions, Mupunga said. Despite the proliferation of all these new digital payment technologies it is the incumbents like Visa that are best positioned to gain from this move to a cashless society. Visa had built a deep moat around it in the form of its network effect, relationship with stakeholders within its network and brand equity, which made it difficult for new entrants to disrupt the business, he said.Banks from around the world wanted to be part of the Visa network because it allowed their consumers to travel internationally and use the network without any difficulty.Mupunga said Visa paid a percentage of their revenue to banks as an incentive. In turn, banks used the money to fund their loyalty programmes to attract customers. It is this symbiotic relationship between customers, Visa and the banks that we believe makes it very difficult for new entrants to come into the market. New entrants often found it a lot easier to leverage off the established networks than to circumvent them. Visa also spent a considerable amount of its revenue on marketing and building the brand to ensure the consumer felt secure.A key attraction was its business fundamentals. The revenue tailwind of increases in the number and size of transactions was expected to continue driving Visa s earnings. The group also had stable margins, which were significantly better than its peers and its debt ratios were attractive. Since listing, the firm had been able to convert 100% of its net income into cash. In two of the last four years, it had paid out all of its net income to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and dividends, Mupunga said. We believe that by investing in companies such as Visa that are domiciled in developed markets, but are capturing some of the growth in emerging markets we are able to generate superior returns. We believe that incumbents like Visa are best positioned because of the high barriers to entry that they ve created in their business operating model, which will support strong earnings growth going forward. StarbucksA company that understood the value of building and maintaining a brand was Starbucks, Mupunga said.Store openings in Japan and China earlier this year were accompanied by long queues similar to those seen in Johannesburg when the first Starbucks store opened its doors locally in 2016.Why do customers keep coming back to Starbucks?One reason is due to the concept of the third place , a belief that people of all ages wanted a place other than home or work to sit for a few hours to work or socialise. People were willing to spend some money to do that, Mupunga said.Starbucks had positioned itself as an ideal third place for people across different generations by offering free Wi-Fi and personalising the experience.The group had also transformed its business from one that predominantly sold ground coffee beans to a multi-product, multi-channel business. Around 20% of the group s revenue was derived from its food division and management has set a target to increase it to about a third in the next few years, Mupunga said.Over the last decade, one of the group s key successes had been an effort to transform Starbucks from a business that sold coffee in coffee shops to one that competed aggressively in the aisle . This included the introduction of ready-to-drink and packaged products and a foray into coffee pods.He said Starbucks had been remarkably successful in the single serve (pod) market in the US. This market was very attractive because it was growing at a rapid rate and margins were high.The group s loyalty programme also played a significant role in generating repeat customers, he argued.A good loyalty or rewards programme led to increased store visits, an increase in expenditure per customer and also gave the business invaluable customer information that they wouldn t be able to learn from anywhere else.Mupunga said Starbucks&#8217; success with the loyalty programme had been its ability to freely integrate the programme with its mobile app. While on their way to the subway, customers could get a notification that their favourite beverage was available with an accompanying pastry at a 20% discount. It is this ability to target market based on previous purchases that sets Starbucks loyalty programme apart. Along with that comes the ability to pre-order and to collect at the store. Over the long term, the most exciting opportunity for Starbucks was China. The firm s management had repeatedly stressed that China would be its largest market in the long run.At the moment about two-thirds of its revenue is derived from North America, but it planned to double its store footprint in China in the next four years, with about 500 stores opening per annum.Mupunga said over the last decade China s coffee consumption had grown by about 16% per annum, but there was still significant runway before its consumption matched those of its peers. The average Chinese consumer drank about six cups of coffee a year compared to the average American, who consumed roughly 300 cups.He conceded however that it would take time to change culture and to convert a nation that largely drank tea to a population of coffee drinkers.