Broad-based black economic empowerment ( BBBEE or just BEE), appears to be a uniquely South African phenomenon. It is unlike the more universal value-added tax (VAT), which continues to be adopted, with the likes of India and the Gulf states having recently introduced it. As a result of the universal application of VAT, most transactions have been considered from a VAT perspective in at least some part of the world. It is probably unlikely, though, to find anything authoritative written on the impact of VAT on BEE transactions in any other jurisdiction. In the typical BEE deal, beneficiaries are generally not in a financial position to buy the shares in the target company the company that needs the black shareholding to meet the charter requirements, and to unlock the treasure trove that is doing business with government. The participation of the black shareholders can often only be obtained by making the proposition particularly attractive, with minimum initial cost to the would-be shareholder. From a VAT perspective, the question is whether these benefits are made available by the company as a gesture of gratuitous benevolence, without any quid pro quo required, or whether a return on investment is actually required. Clearly, no company will just donate shares in order to achieve a better BEE rating without restricting the right to trade in such shares. At the very least they will do so for a period in order to enjoy the fruits of their improved demographic shift in shareholding. Shares are typically transferred to a separate legal entity or special purpose vehicle (SPV). Such a transaction comes at a hefty price in the form of consultancy fees. The SPV would acquire the shares, which are funded with a notional loan structure payable at a future date when the shares are sold on the open market. The SPV would not be in a position to pay capital or interest, and such costs would have to be added to the base cost of the shares, together with consultancy fees incurred. The SPV receives the entitlement to any growth in the share price, over and above the base cost. The empowerment shares could receive notional dividends during the lock-in period which will rank pari pasu with the main class of ordinary shares. The outstanding notional loan will be credited with the notional dividends when received. The SPV, on the other hand, needs black shareholding to create the improved BEE rating for the SPV s parent. As a result, the SPV would issue separate classes of shares to the BEE Co&#8217; at nominal value. As the share price of the company in which the SPV invested in grows, so does the value of the special BEE class shares in the SPV. The BEE Co therefore stands to gain substantially if the share price in the company in which the SPV invested in grows above the base cost, without having to pay a cent. The question, however, from a VAT perspective, is whether the BEE Co renders any form of a service in respect of the benefits it receives. A requirement for the BEE Co to receive its benefit (comprising the value of the shares in the SPV), would be that it would have to undertake to ensure that its shareholding remains stable and remain of the correct demographic nature in order to ensure the BEE rating of the parent company. It would also have to undertake not to sell its shares. In terms of the VAT Act, the surrender of a right constitutes a service .Per a recent Moneyweb article quoting Bowman Gilfillan: the new Companies Act provides an exception to this general principle, by allowing the issuance of shares to be transferred to a third party, to be held in trust, where the consideration for the shares is in the form of an instrument with a future value or in terms of an agreement for the provision of future services, payments or other benefits. This in effect allows for shares to be issued in trust on credit or for so-called sweat capital in the form of services. It would appear that BEE Co receives consideration to do something. If consideration is received for supplies made in the course of an enterprise, such consideration is taxable. Where it is in kind and not in cash, the Act requires that VAT be accounted for at market value. As far as the interaction between the company and the SPV is concerned, it also has to be asked whether or not the company makes any supplies in the course of the furtherance of its enterprise to the SPV (a connected person). Being a connected person not conducting any enterprise, any supplies made to it by the company are deemed to be made at the market value. The company clearly provides financial assistance and facilitates the entire transaction for the benefit of the SPV. It does look like there might be some interesting questions to be asked in this regard, as such services would be deemed to be supplied at the market value for VAT purposes. These transactions are complex and without a one-size-fits-all answer, but it does look like VAT might not be getting its due consideration. Research released by Intellidex in 2015 revealed that BEE deals done by the JSE s 100 largest companies have collectively generated R317 billion of value for beneficiaries.&nbsp;