Word out on the street is that property in Cape Town is really expensive. Like crazy expensive. As in Donald Trump crazy. But just how bad is it? I decided to look a little deeper into the topic, and I think the results will surprise you.For this investigation the cities I decided to take a look at were:To get a gauge of property prices in South Africa, I visited the Property 24 website. It has a section that allows you to view property trends of a certain city or suburb. Then, it gives a break down showing the average listing price of properties on the website according to number of bedrooms. This seems like a good representation of property values of an area. Bear in mind, I am not vouching for the accuracy of the data, I am merely using it and interpreting it as I see it. Of course to say something like &#8220;Cape Town&#8221; or &#8220;Johannesburg&#8221; is very broad, and there are hundreds of suburbs in each city, with very different characteristics, features and prices. So taking an average value is oversimplifying. The results are below (accurate at the time of writing &#8211; naturally these will change as time goes on):It seems that mountain has made property prices in Cape Town around three times higher than most of the other cities. But to only look at &#8220;average property&#8221; price is maybe a little crude. It is probably better to look at &#8220;property affordability&#8221;. To get an idea of incomes across the cities in South Africa I used the Payscale website. The site lets you find average salaries for specific cities according to a number of filters. I am going to oversimplify to the extreme here, and use the average income of an office administrator for a city as a proxy for the average income of that city. I am not picking on any office administrators; that particular job showed up on all the cities, and so it is the easiest to use for comparison. The chart below shows the average annual income for an office administrator across the various cities in South Africa.Source: PayscaleShock and horror, the income in Cape Town is not three times higher than everywhere else. In fact, the incomes are all pretty much in line across the cities (around the R110k mark per year), with the exception of Sandton, which seems to pay better than everywhere else.Now that we have average house prices and average income for the cities, we can compare the affordability of property across the different cities. I define property affordability as the number of years worth of average income it would take for you to pay for an average priced house (i.e. affordability = average price/average income). The smaller the number, the &#8220;more affordable&#8221; the property is. Using this definition, I calculated the affordability of one-, two-, and three-bedroom houses.Quite simply, Cape Town dwarfs everywhere else. Even knowing that my assumptions about property prices and incomes may be flawed, and the calculations overly simplistic, Cape Town is such a massive outlier that there is really only one way to interpret it. If you live in Cape Town, your housing bill is at least twice as much as anywhere else. From the chart, Sandton is the obvious second-least affordable city. As for the rest of the cities &#8211; well, they are more or less in line, and nothing glaringly obvious between them (except for maybe the affordability of three-bedroom houses in Centurion). To summarise &#8211; by moving from Cape Town to any other city in South Africa, you will at least halve your housing expense (and more than likely slash it by a third). Personally, I was pretty interested in the two-bedroom results (since that is what we bought last year, and what our current family requires). For this category, Centurion falls more or less in the middle &#8211; it seems that the porridge here in Centurion is not too hot and not too cold. Having said that, if you are living in Cape Town, maybe you should be at least be giving relocation some thought? Living in Cape Town is a choice, and like most choices, there is a financial implication (and in this case a very large one). So for those living in Cape Town, here is what I would do: I guess what I am saying is that if you live in Cape Town, you don&#8217;t need to pack up and move immediately. At a minimum, though, you should be asking the question. And if there is a glaringly obvious case for relocating, it is a definitely worth doing some further research. It could easily turn into a multi-million rand decision.