Just before I moved to the UK to further my studies at the end of 1990, I bought a beautiful picture book entitled The English Season, to help prepare for the experience of life in Great Britain. The CNA price tag is still legible today, nearly three decades later: R42.99 (as compared to a UK price of 9.95 at the time); those were indeed the days, when you could still buy a pound for just over R4 but that s a topic for another day.According to the book, the English Season consists of 25 key sports, cultural and social events &#8211; including some obvious suspects such as the Chelsea Flower Show, cricket at Lord&#8217;s, tennis at Wimbledon and the Henley Regatta. And, given the notoriously fickle nature of the English weather, it won&#8217;t come as a surprise to anyone that no less than 15 of the 25 annual events are scheduled to take place during the short spring/summer window starting in May and ending in July. Those who are lucky enough to have been to the UK at this time of the year will understand it when I say that it&#8217;s a very special time indeed. The days are long, the people are out, the pubs are bustling, the flowers in the parks are blooming. The whole place is bursting with tourists. And, with a bit of luck, they may even experience the odd bit of decent weather (we&#8217;ve just seen five days in a row where temperatures rose above 30 degrees Celsius in London, unbelievable as that may sound). Even though I am more of a winter person, I have come to love the English summer over the years. And I cannot wait to take my place in the pavilion at Lord&#8217;s when the Proteas walk out on that hallowed turf in a couple of weeks&#8217; time (even though their recent performance in the short form of the game does not bode well). And yet, and yet&#8230; Somehow this summer doesn&#8217;t feel quite as special, as exciting, as pleasant, as filled with expectation as every other year (in spite of the preponderance of sunny days that we&#8217;ve experienced). To put this in perspective, let me rewind the clock 12 months. A year ago to the day, the UK decided by the narrowest of margins to leave the EU a blow to the solar plexus of many an immigrant, commentator, City worker, and financial market participant if ever there was one.The day after the referendum was my daughter&#8217;s ninth birthday, and she came down to our kitchen at six o&#8217;clock in the morning, all excited to open presents and enjoy chocolate cake (the one day of the year that she s allowed to do so at breakfast time). And there I was, ignoring her, frantically writing a newsletter about the Brexit decision and its possible impact on markets which would be distributed to clients later that same day. I still hope she will forgive me for this in the not too distant future. Since then, a lot seems to have changed in London. We&#8217;ve seen a new Prime Minister taking power (and if one believes some newspaper reports, we may see another one soon). We&#8217;ve had a snap election (resulting in the minor inconvenience of a hung parliament). We&#8217;ve witnessed politicians entering Brexit talks in Brussels with no clear plan (other than the fact that no deal will supposedly be better than a bad deal). We&#8217;ve experienced a dramatic decline in the value of the pound relative to all other currencies (which means that we&#8217;re all quite a bit poorer now). Business confidence is down and property prices are falling; inflation is going up with interest rates soon to follow (in all likelihood).In the meantime, our neighbours in the EU have been galvanised by a stronger economy as well as improved sentiment thanks to an impressive showing by Europhile moderates winning impressive mandates in countries such France and Austria. As Jeremy Cliffe recently wrote in the New Statesman: Britain sold its stake in Europe at the bottom of the market; the continent is spiralling back.Even worse, we&#8217;ve been reeling from terror attack after terror attack in London (not to mention a few near misses). And then, ten days ago, we woke up to the news of a devastating fire at Grenfell Tower in Kensington (with the death toll still rising on a daily basis).Against this background, it is easy to feel a bit despondent. What does the future hold? Will my Polish hairdresser still be around when I next need a trim? When and where might the next terrorist strike? Should I think twice before taking my daughter to Borough Market or a concert at Wembley? Will London ever get back the kind of swagger that we saw at the time of the 2012 Olympic Games? Was it a mistake to move here in the first place?But then I m also reminded that London has a rich history going back over 2 000 years. It has survived attacks by Saxon Pirates, the Plague, the Great Fire, a Thames flood, the IRA bombings in the eighties, the tube attacks in 2005 as well as countless rail and weather disasters over the years to name but a few. And the place is still standing, still vibrant, still a melting pot of cultures and languages, still nearly 10 million people coping with the weather and the pollution and the stressful commute and the lack of personal space on a daily basis.Having moved to London only relatively recently myself, I was further struck by the words of Matthew Syed, sports columnist at The Times, when he wrote the following about his Pakistani father s commitment to the UK a few days ago: His love of his adopted country is of the distinctive kind that only exists among first-generation immigrants. The rule of law, due process, unifying institutions such as the monarchy and Radio 4: Dad does not take such things for granted, but regards them with a certain awe. It is only when you have witnessed the cancer of corruption up close that you recognise the beauty of its absence, he once said. Much as I believe an investor should not check his or her portfolio on a daily or weekly basis (as studies show that one is bound to get bogged down by short term volatility), I also try and look through the noise and focus on the longer term when thinking about life in London. And I m confident that the city will not only survive, but that it will bounce back and thrive again in time to come (as it s always done).If nothing else, I m looking forward to my pilgrimage to Lord s in a couple of weeks time not to mention the fact that I plan to enjoy an uninterrupted piece of chocolate cake with my daughter in celebration of her tenth birthday on Saturday morning.Deon Gouws is chief investment officer at Credo Wealth.