Atlas Mara, which has dropped almost 80% since an initial public offering led by co-founder Bob Diamond, plans to raise more than its market value by selling a 35 % stake to Fairfax Africa Holdings Corp.The firm expects to get $200 million from selling new stock to existing shareholders and Fairfax Africa and will also issue a fresh convertible bond to the Toronto-based investment company, the company said in a statement on Wednesday. Atlas Mara will use the proceeds to boost its holdings in Union Bank of Nigeria Plc to 44.5% from about 31%.Atlas Mara, which owns banks in seven African countries, has plunged in value since its December 2013 IPO after growth across the continent slumped and currencies weakened amid a commodities rout. Diamond, 65, in February ousted Chief Executive Officer John Vitalo and pledged to cut annual operating costs by $20 million after rising expenses threatened the company s ability to expand through acquisitions.Union Bank, Atlas Mara s single biggest investment in Africa, is Nigeria s worst-performing bank stock this year. It announced plans to raise capital through a rights issue in November as the country s small- and mid-sized lenders struggled to cope with a contraction in the economy of Africa s biggest oil producer. Atlas Mara agreed to acquire an indirect 13.4 % shareholding in Lagos-based Union Bank from the Clermont Group for $55 million, it said. Union Bank is going through regulatory approvals and will then start the share sale, spokeswoman Ogochukwu Ekezie said. Like-minded A strategic partnership with Fairfax Africa creates a strong relationship between two like-minded, long-term investors in Africa, Atlas Mara said. Each is focused on capitalizing on the long-term growth potential of Africa and provides permanent capital to support growth. The partnership with Fairfax Africa, which last year bought Zurich Insurance Group AG s South African business and rebranded it Byte Insurance, will give Fairfax four of the nine seats on Atlas Mara s board. A new management incentive plan will also be put in place, while Diamond will continue as Atlas Mara s executive chairman, the company said. Existing investors face a dilution of about 35 %, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Fairfax Africa agreed to buy at least 30 % of the $100 million of new shares at a price of $2.25 apiece, representing an implied purchase price of 0.33 times book value, the company said in a separate statement. Atlas Mara s stock has traded at an average this year of $2.26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares rose 1 % to $2.54 as of 1:05 p.m. in London, giving the company a market value of $197.5 million. Banks are at the forefront of economic development in sub-Saharan Africa, Prem Watsa, Fairfax Africa s chairman, said in the statement. Atlas Mara represents a unique opportunity to invest in many profitable banks in the region at a very attractive valuation. 2017 Bloomberg L.P&nbsp;