For the first time since December last year, testimony in the criminal trail of Tigon kingpins Gary Porritt and Sue Bennett may continue on Tuesday. This follows after judge Brian Spilg stayed the enquiry into Bennett s health issues and her fitness to stand trial. Porritt and Bennett stand accused of more than 3 000 counts of fraud and contraventions of the Income Tax Act, Companies Act, Stock Exchanges Control Act, Exchange Control Regulations and the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. Spilg still has to rule on Bennett s contempt of court after she failed to appear in court earlier despite his express order to do so. The state s first witness, Jack Milne, will continue his testimony on Tuesday and is expected to remain on the stand for a further 20 court days. Milne was managing director of Progressive Systems College Guaranteed Growth (PSCGG), an investment scheme that was underwritten by JSE listed company Tigon, of which Porritt was CEO. Milne has served a jail term in connection with the events that led to the collapse of the scheme. Porritt was arrested in 2002 and Bennett in 2003, but they delayed their trial until last year. When it eventually started with the two accused representing themselves, progress was extremely slow as Spilg indulged Porritt s extremely slow note taking. Spilg maintained that Porritt should be allowed to not only write down what transpired in court, but also make notes for the purpose of later cross-examining the witness. Since the accused are unrepresented, Spilg said he had to protect their rights to a fair trial. After the court s December recess Bennett failed to present herself at court on several occasions due to alleged ill health. Spilg launched a full enquiry into her fitness to stand trial. On Monday he stayed the enquiry after the state supported a proposal made by Adv Annalene van den Heever, who represents Bennett only in her health-related matter. She proposed that the court take a one-week break after every two weeks sitting, to allow Bennett to recharge the batteries . The proposal was made on the advice of Bennett s psychiatrist, Dr Maria Dobreva. Porritt opposed the resumption of the trial and wanted three weeks off to prepare a substantive application that he said might result in him obtaining legal representation. From proceedings in court it seems Porritt and Bennett want to bring an application for the court to sit intermittently, which would allow them to work for parts of the month and put them in a position to pay for legal counsel. This might be based on the right to earn a living. Van den Heever said negotiations are underway, seemingly with one of the trusts Porritt s family is linked to, that should result in at least Mr Porritt obtaining legal representation of at least one counsel. This comes as Bennett withdrew her earlier application for legal aid. The application was submitted last year, but stalled because she failed to supply the financial detail Legal Aid South Africa required to consider her application. Spilg warned Bennett repeatedly in court on Monday that her decision not to proceed with the request for legal aid has consequences and that he will need to hear the motivation behind it. He said he has a legal opinion stating that legal representation will be beneficial to her. Porritt told the court that it costs the pair R30 000 a week to attend court in Johannesburg and that they are in a severe financial crisis and financially crippled . He said he could not use previous off days to prepare the application, because he had to consult with Bennett and she was not up to scratch . He pointed out that she could hardly speak on Monday because she suffered from laryngitis. She did not appear otherwise sick and engaged with her legal team. Adv Etienne Coetzee SC opposed Porritt s application for three weeks preparation time. He said the accused are no different from any other accused and have been properly arraigned. Now that the trial can proceed he (Porritt) says they don t have money. That is no legal reason not to stand trial. The trial has been delayed from January to June and it is in the interest of justice to proceed, he said, adding that many of the complainants are elderly people. Spilg directed that the parties file their papers for the substantive application in line with agreed timelines, and that it be heard on October 5. He warned the accused to appear in court on Tuesday when the trial will resume.