Brazil is starting to recover and Russia, too, is stabilising post the oil sell-off. India is seeing strong GDP growth, inflation is under control and there&#8217;s a good government in place. South Africa has had low growth and investors are becoming jittery, but there are still pockets of opportunity. China is on the brink of becoming a consumer-led economy and leads advancements in the tech space. Feroz Basa of Old Mutual gives his emerging market view in the latest market commentator interview. To purchase the audio in full, click here.WARREN THOMPSON: Welcome to this Moneyweb podcast, I have the great pleasure today of chatting to Feroz Basa, he s head of global emerging markets at Old Mutual. Good to have you with us, Feroz.FEROZ BASA: Thanks, Warren, nice to be on the podcast.WARREN THOMPSON: We ve got an action-packed webinar today but the basis I think of the discussion, Feroz, is just to get a lay of the land because emerging markets encompass such a broad number of countries and they are invariably linked to flows from the developed world. I thought what we d do is just start off with painting a picture of how the world stands at the moment to understand what s happening in some of the emerging markets and then we ll obviously drill in specifically and talk about the equity markets and the currencies of those emerging markets as we go along. So we re looking forward to your insights there but perhaps, Feroz, let s look back, if I m not mistaken today is literally ten years since the first shot across the bow in terms of the global financial crisis happened with two hedge funds that started going very south as a result of being invested in these CDOs, collateralised debt obligations, as far as I remember correctly it is about ten years since those funds essentially started to collapse because of the pressure that was starting to come to bear in these mortgage assets that they were investing in. How has the developed world changed since the global financial crisis that s almost ten years old itself?FEROZ BASA: I think that s a very good way to start off, Warren. I remember ten years ago the screens were red all the time, global financial crisis, talk of Lehman Brothers going bust, I just remember coming in and every day shares were down significantly. I was just starting out my career as a portfolio manager, a bit young and na ve, so for me everybody was rushing towards gold and I was this young portfolio manager saying everything is cheap and we need to buy, we need to buy. Yes, I think we ve moved on quite nicely from that global financial crisis, credit to lawmakers, the US has recovered significantly. If you look at banks where they are now versus where they were then it s really chalk and cheese. But I think we are in very peculiar situation globally, we know that there s been some unconventional activity in the market, central banks have introduced quantitative easing, effectively what it means is they ve flooded the market with cheap liquidity in the hope that it would be used as a multiplier and spur economic growth but that actually hasn t happened. What s happened is that this money has somehow found its way into markets and obviously the US market, being the most liquid and highly traded market, the US market has benefitted from this liquidity. The price/earnings on the S&amp;P 500 adjusted price/earnings ratio is on 28 times. Now, if you go back in history and you look at the 15 to 20 years pre-2006 the average price/earnings ratio on the S&amp;P 500 was 15 and post that we are close to 28 times, at record levels. So investors are weary and people are looking for growth around the world. So this is to paint the current scenario, high debt levels in the developed world, unfavourable demographics, very high valuations and slow growth. So this is a very tricky time for investors globally and in South Africa to navigate these markets and invest for the longer term with this in mind.WARREN THOMPSON: Feroz, just going back to when you mentioned that you had just started out managing money and at that time I think I was at Investec during my second stint in 2007 and, as you say, it was just absolute carnage from there until the Lehman collapse and the response from the central banks.To purchase the audio in full, click here.