Following the brutal terror attack that killed seven and injured many others on Saturday night, residents are in a state of shock. Occurring less than two weeks after 22 youngsters were killed in the suicide bomb attack at Manchester Arena, the UK is understandably in a state of panic and worry. Unsurprisingly, politicians are entering full battle mode before the snap election on June 8, with security and terrorism now front and centre of the debate. For property investors worldwide, the uncertainty in the UK is raising questions around what has typically been regarded as a juicy investment proposition. At this moment, it is perhaps helpful to recall the words of Warren Buffett and his take on investment decisions taken during turbulent times: Be greedy [brave] when others are fearful. Without doubt, there is certainly a possibility that the recent acts of terrorism could dampen corporate enthusiasm to relocate from London or Manchester. That said, corporate juggernauts such as Apple and Google have already made long-term investments in the region. Google is building a new head office in Kings Cross London that has the capacity to house 7 000 employees, and Apple has leased 500 000 square feet at Battersea power station. Earlier this year, Deutsche Bank and Freshfields law firm signed 20-year leases for central London offices.With regards to the UK residential property market, it is in fact undersupplied. Since the 1970s, the number of new homes built has decreased from 350 000 completions per annum to less than 150 000 new homes in 2015. This decrease is taking place while demand is increasing &#8211; with the natural population growth of around 220 000 per annum and a further 250 000 from net inward migration. **The graph displaying the increase in house prices is remarkably similar to the total increase in population over time. This trend illustrates that the forces of supply and demand are driving up house prices in the region.It is important, when considering the viability of new and existing investments, to take the political landscape and emerging policies into account. Naturally, investors have placed many question marks around what Brexit and the upcoming election will mean for them in the short and long term.Regarding the hot button migrant issue, neither of the two major parties, Labour and Conservative, have committed to a defined number of migrants per annum. Both have promised an increase in house building, yet changing restrictive local planning departments and motivating private companies to build is more challenging than politicians will admit. On a macro level, the government cutbacks and quantitative easing (by the Bank of England) have not translated into real economic growth (only 0.2% Q1 2017) or a reduction in the UK deficit.What lies beneath ?Health care, along with security, is a massive issue and one that directly impacts property investments.The Conservatives appear to be supporting the privatisation of the NHS. For example, Virgin Care entered the *UK care market in 2010, and over the last six years has been awarded contracts worth more than 1 billion and runs over two hundred NHS services.*The care home market essentially refers to housing for the elderly, which often requires specialised services. The UK has a rising elderly population and the demand for care is set to increase by 150% over the next four years. Notably, if the Labour Party does win the majority and implements its fiscal policies of Nationalisation of the rails (which requires capital spending) it is projected, by Oxford Economics, to increase inflation and thereby the interest rates on UK Treasury notes. In recent times, investors have flocked to emerging markets and acquired Treasury notes &#8211; such as those of South Africa &#8211; that are perceived to be more risky than developed countries (and thereby attract a higher interest rate). Arguably, investors will swiftly withdraw investments in developing markets in favour of developed markets, such as the UK, when interest rates increase in developed markets. What is interesting is that the rand is relatively strong against the pound currently despite the state capture issue, widespread corruption and recent credit rating downgrades. So although investors are feeling rattled by factors impacting the UK buy-to-let property and care home markets, it is critical to note that now may be the golden moment to venture into these sectors. Indeed, to focus one s attention on the fundamentals can potentially benefit those who take advantage of the short-term currency strength of the rand (relative to the GBP). Brought to you by One Touch Investment UK.