Tigon accused Gary Porritt on Wednesday told the South Gauteng High Court that he had never in his 66 years been as sick as during a trip in a police car from Pietermaritzburg to Johannesburg last week.Despite the severity of his condition and a court order that he should be admitted to the Charlotte Maxeke public hospital upon arrival in Johannesburg, the staff refused to admit him. According to Porritt staff members asked: Who does the judge think he is? They were apparently upset by him jumping the long queue and pointed out that other people had been waiting in line for two days to get medical care.Porritt and co-accused Sue Bennett are on trial on more than 3 000 charges including fraud, racketeering and the contravention of financial legislation relating to the collapse of listed financial services company Tigon around 2002.The court is currently conducting an enquiry into Porritt s absence from court on June 12 and 19, which resulted in his bail being provisionally withdrawn, and saw him being arrested and brought to court. He is currently in custody in the Johannesburg prison.On Thursday June 22 he was too sick to sit up in court and spent part of the hearing lying on the floor. He spent the following night in the cells at Johannesburg central prison. On Friday he was able to walk on his own and engage his counsel.Porritt testified on Wednesday that he was unable to attend court on both occasions due to illness. He was in hospital and advised by doctors that he was not fit to attend court.He told the court that he was admitted to the Mediclinic in Pietermaritzburg on June 10 after fainting three times within 30 minutes the previous day. Dr Mugabi, the cardiologist who examined him, has been subpoenaed and is expected to testify on Thursday.Porritt testified that he was discharged and referred to a psychologist at the Oaklands clinic in Howick. Due to the unavailability of staff over the long weekend his admittance was delayed until June 18, the day before he was due to appear in court in Johannesburg again.He eventually saw a Dr Pillay for the first time on Monday, June 19. According to a document before court, she noted that he should be admitted for seven days.The next afternoon he was, however, called out of a therapy session and told that he was being discharged. Porritt said he told the hospital the previous day about the court order that had been issued for his arrest. He said after being called from therapy the hospital manager told him that the police had arrived and that Dr Pillay resigned as his psychologist because she did not want to get involved in his court battle. The hospital could therefore not keep him, the hospital manager said.Judge Brian Spilg earlier issued a subpoena for Pillay to testify about Porritt s health. As a result of her reluctance he subsequently issued a warrant for her arrest to be executed unless she shows herself at court on Friday.Listen to the podcast: Tigon CEO Porritt warrant of arrest issuedPorritt said after being discharged from Oaklands he was still feeling very ill and was suffering from terrible headaches.His son Greg came to fetch him that evening and took him back to the Mediclinic. During the trip he passed out again.He was admitted to the medical ward at Mediclinic under the care of a physician, Porritt testified. The next morning the physician told him the police had arrived. I got the impression he spoke to them and couldn t wait to get rid of me, Porritt told the court.Investigating office Sandra van Wyk and a colleague arrested him and took him to a district surgeon where he was examined before the trip to Johannesburg. The examination took 15 minutes, he said.He described the trip in detail, saying he thought he was dying. He was shivering; felt nauseous, had stomach problems and a terrible headache.After the trip and being showed the door at Charlotte Maxeke, Porritt was taken to the private Milpark hospital.The specialist emergency physician on duty said after doing tests including a brain scan, that he should see a neurologist the next morning. He wanted to admit Porritt since it was already after midnight. Van Wyk however refused, saying Porritt had to be in court the next morning. According to Porritt the doctor said that would be unfair towards his patient and went to see the hospital manager.The hospital manager said Milpark does not treat prisoners and he was discharged around 3:00am.Eventually Van Wyk phoned Bennett who agreed to that Porritt could stay with her in the hotel in Rosebank. Van Wyk guarded him there until he was brought to court.State prosecutor Etienne Coetzee SC started his cross-examination of Porritt. He put it to Porritt that the court at several occasions explained to him and Bennett the difference between attending court and being able to understand and contribute to proceedings. Porritt responded that he couldn t remember that, but would accept it if he was shown the record of such explanations.The trial will continue on Thursday with Mugabi s evidence and the further cross-examination of Porritt.