Telkom raised the full-year dividend by a record as South Africa s biggest landline provider enters a new phase of growth by giving more autonomy to its four business units.The annual payout to shareholders increased 56% to R4.22 a share, the Pretoria-based company said in a statement on Monday. Earnings per share excluding one-time items increased by 12% R7.31 in the year through March, while operating revenue gained 9.8%. We have provided more clarity on our dividend in that we will pay shareholders 60% of headline earnings, chief executive officer Sipho Maseko said by phone. The integration of 2015 acquisition BCX into the business-to-business division and the accelerated growth of the mobile-phone unit helped drive the earnings increase, the CEO said.Following a three-year turnaround strategy that returned Telkom to profit, Maseko is giving the company s four business units more independence to further boost earnings. The phone operator, almost 40% owned by the South African government, started a mobile unit, the country s fourth biggest, to sit alongside landline and internet services in a retail division. BCX, which provides IT services to corporate customers, a real estate portfolio and wholesale broadband make up the other three units.Read: Telkom to split company into four units to boost profitTelkom shares rose 2.3% to R77.74 as of 10:01am in Johannesburg and have soared more than 400% under Maseko s watch. That values the company at R41 billion ($3.2 billion).The phone operator has done a number of smaller acquisitions to build out the BCX business, Maseko said. That s to add customers in different industries, including retail, health and mining. The broadband business will enable fixed line and mobile customers to stream video, he said, and the company has content-sharing partnerships with Netflix and Naspers s Multichoice.Capital expenditure increased 43% to R8.7 billion as the company invested in fiber networks and the wireless business. Mobile subscriber numbers rose by 48% to about 4 million. Splitting the reporting of the business units will provide shareholders with more clarity on which company is contributing what to earnings, Maseko said. 2017 Bloomberg