Liberty s turnaround strategy is said to remain unchanged despite the group having backtracked on a potential restructure at Liberty Corporate.Nine employees within Liberty Corporate, which crafts employee benefit schemes for businesses, were issued with letters informing them of a potential restructure, that may affect their jobs, on February 22. The group then changed the decision for business reasons .Liberty would not say how many people are employed in the corporate division. Moneyweb has learnt, from a source, that the unit comprises around 100 employees. The initial distribution of the letters and the decision to rescind the letters does not affect Liberty s existing strategy in any way, chief marketing officer Sydney Mbhele told Moneyweb. The group has long been working toward a 2020 strategy that prioritises sustainable growth and includes a pan-African growth strategy, intended to diversify Liberty s business away from its largely South African base.Liberty s performance has been weighed down, in part, by challenging market conditions and heightened strain on consumers across the countries in which it operates. At group level, it reported a 46.2% decline in headline earnings to R2.21 billion in the 2016 financial year. It said an accounting mismatch arising from the listing of the Liberty Two Degrees Reit, which comprises part of its property portfolio, resulted in a negative earnings impact of R304 million. It has also been a drag on parent company Standard Bank as earnings attributable to Liberty fell by 61% to R955 million over the same period. The banking group committed, in March 2017, to helping Liberty overcome its short-term challenges and re-establish its competitiveness over the long-term through the implementation of a ten-point plan.Read: Standard Bank prioritises Liberty TurnaroundBut the plan appeared to have hit a speedbump late last month, when former chief executive Thabo Dloti resigned with immediate effect citing difference of opinion with the board on the immediate focus of the company at a time when the organisation is facing tough operational and environmental challenges . Mbhele said Dloti s resignation was in no way connected to the handling of the potential restructure at Liberty Corporate.Read: Thabo Dloti quits LibertyDloti has since been replaced by David Munro, the former head of Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB) at Standard Bank. According to Adrian Cloete, a portfolio manager at PSG Wealth, Munro was instrumental in driving improvements in CIB s earnings and return on equity, and should prove capable of driving Liberty s turnaround strategy. He is a competent able person with an excellent track record at Standard Bank and experience in financial services as an executive, he said.Consensus among analysts is for Liberty s earnings to rebound strongly off a low base in 2017, with normalised headline earnings expected to increase by some 56% to R14.12.At around R112 per share, shares in the JSE-listed company continue to face pressure and are trading 8% lower than one year ago.&nbsp;