Listed printing and publishing company Caxton on Thursday applied to intervene in a rival s settlement with the Competition Commission and in the process put the spotlight once again on the control structure of JSE industrial giant Naspers.Caxton wants the Competition Tribunal to reject the settlement reached between the parties to a merger and increase the proposed penalty from R1 million to R40 million.The matter before the Tribunal pertains to an agreement between the Natal Witness and Mandla Matla, then owners of the isiZulu newspaper Ilanga. The agreement was signed in November 2000 and provided for services Natal Witness would render to Ilanga starting in 2002.From the date of signing the agreement Mandla Matla was bound to restrictions in dealing with its trademarks. The agreement also provided for certain expansions in printing capacity in preparation for the Natal Witness to take over the printing of Ilanga in 2002.The services Natal Witness witness would render gave them control over the business aspects of Ilanga and Caxton contends that Natal Witness acquired control of Mandla Matla in 2002. This constituted a merger in terms of the Competition Act and the parties had a duty to notify the Competition Authorities, Caxton argued.They however only did so in June last year and entered into an agreement with the commission to pay the R1 million fine for their failure to notify and for implementing the merger without approval.The date of the merger is important, because Media24 acquired 50% shareholding in Mandla Matla in December 2000, 18 days after the service agreement was signed.Caxton argues that Media24, Naspers and the entities that control Naspers are also parties to the merger since they were in control of the Natal Witness when it acquired control of Ilanga in 2002.The Competition Act defines the acquiring firm as the company that does the acquisitions and all those that control it.In 2002 that would mean Natal Witness, Media24, Naspers and the companies that control Naspers. Adv. Wim Trengove SC for Caxton told the Tribunal that the Naspers control structure since its listing in 1995 vests voting powers in A shares owned by Nasbel and Keeromstraat. He said there is some controversy about the position of Wheatfields in the control structure.In its heads of arguments Caxton said Wheatfields might have gained control in 2007, but Naspers failed to file a merger with competition authorities in that regard.Tribunal member Enver Daniels pointed out that the Media24 and Naspers control structures were not put before the Tribunal. Trengove responded that the only option for the Tribunal was to decline the consent agreement as flawed and refer it back to the Competition Commission to determine all the parties to the merger.It stands to reason that that would require full disclosure of the Naspers control structure.Caxton once before put the Naspers control structure on the table before the Tribunal. That was in 2014 in a merger application by Media24 and Paarl Media Group, Paarl Media Holdings, and Paarl Coldset, now known as Novus.Caxton then tabled its own research into the Naspers control structure and alleged that Naspers chairman Koos Bekker, former MIH head Cobus Stofberg and Sanlam are in ultimate control. It further alleged that the merging parties failed to disclose this despite a legal obligation to do so.The parties then withdrew their application and later listed Novus.Caxton however applied to the Tribunal for an interdict to stop the listing and compel the parties to first file a merger application. This was declined and the listing went ahead, but the Competition Appeals Court ultimately granted the Caxton application. The parties have since notified the authorities of the merger that has already been implemented and the matter will be heard later this month. The Naspers control structure will most probably again be canvassed in those proceedings.Keeromstraat, Nasbel and Wheatfields on Thursday withdrew its earlier opposition to the application in the Natal Witness matter. Keeromstraat and Nasbel on the one hand and Wheatfields on the other however each had a legal team on a watching brief at the proceedings.Caxton argued that the proposed R1 million penalty is shockingly inappropriate if the merging parties previous non-compliance with competition law is taken into account. That is based on the inclusion of the Naspers companies as merging parties. It also pointed out that it took the parties 14 years before the did the filing.Trengove said: It had to be squeezed out of them over a period of fourteen years and even then they under-reported! Adv. David Unterhalter SC for the Media24 companies insisted that the merger occurred in 2000 and Natal Witness and Mandla Matla were the only parties to it. He argued that the Competition Act, before an amendment in 2001, placed a duty on the merging parties to notify a merger within seven days after it was signed. He said the content of that duty could not have changed at a later date.He stated that the penalty was appropriate and in fact at the high end of similar penalties. As a result of the service agreement the printing capacity of the Independent group, that printed Ilanga before, was feed up and it started another isiZulu newspaper. It in fact increased competition, he said.The Competition Commission supported the Media24 companies and said the merging parties initially offered to pay R200 000 to R300 000. The Commission was however able to reach a settlement of R1 million, which was relatively high.It explained that it weighed aggravating and mitigating factors up in determining the penalty and considered it to be rational and definitely not shockingly inappropriate .