Q: I read the advice provided in this article, and find myself in a similar position, but have already made an investment choice and would like to get an opinion on it.As advised in the article, I was rather wary of the current political and economic dangers with the Brexit upheavals, the Trump administration and of course local uncertainty, particularly with regards the rand. </i>I recently inherited a large sum of money* and was worried about making sure it grows. Some background:I have a small but ever growing investment portfolio which I manage myself (albeit rather badly since mid 2016, with what was a 32% profit now reduced to a meagre 2%), which consists of equities only. I have invested the amount I inherited in an Old Mutual Multi-Managers Enhanced Income Fund of Funds. The thinking behind this was to preserve my capital, and obtain interest from it which I could use to pay off my credit card and shore myself up with some emergency funds while waiting for the markets to quieten down and I could get a better sense of direction. This unit trust is mostly cash and bond based (unfortunately I misunderstood the effects of a weak rand on bonds, thinking initially that a weaker rand was a good thing). I had initially wanted to put this amount in a Nedbank account which earns 8.5% interest (and I would not have been charged about R3 500 for fees). My question is thus:</i>*Reader asked for sum not to be published.&nbsp;Every investor has different priorities when it comes to investing. Each will have a different risk profile as well as their own objectives (in terms of time frame, as an example). A comprehensive financial plan cannot be created without more information. Completing a financial needs analysis as well as a risk profiler will enable an advisor to get a better understanding of the client, which will put them in a better position to assist. Current financial positionThe reader has pointed out that his salary is below market value, with the hope of this changing in the future. Financial planning does take the future into account, but the salary issue is a large uncertainty at this point. The investor should rather work on his current salary in terms of savings. Drafting a budget is an effective way of managing cash flow, and will give the reader a better of idea of exactly how much money is leaving every month, and how much he can afford to save. Short term creditCurrently, the maximum rate of interest on credit cards is 21.48%. If this isn t taken care of, the interest can pile up and interest will be paid on top of the credit card debt. It will be more advantageous to tackle the credit card debt first, using the money from the inheritance. Some might argue that the opportunity cost involved would outweigh settling the debt, but high interest bills can become very nasty. Also, an investment would have to provide a higher return as opposed to the interest rate on the credit card, and in the current environment, this is simply not feasible.Tax viable optionsShould the reader not be contributing to a pension fund with his current employer, it would be highly recommended that he invest in a retirement annuity (RA). The tax break is very attractive. The reader has the option to contribute up to 27.5% of his gross non-pensionable salary into an RA every year. Should he be in a position where he can contribute above that amount, the disallowed contributions can be carried forward to the next tax year, or he can invest the amount above the 27.5% into a tax-free savings account. Another option is to start saving for his two children in tax-free savings accounts as well, as children have much more time on their hands in terms of compounding interest.RiskThe term risk and volatility can be used in parallel. Volatility refers to more movements of the fund in the short term, and risk refers to the potential of gains vs loss. The higher the risk profile of the fund, the greater chance the fund will have more volatility. In the reader s case, he has invested into an income fund. This fund has a lower risk profile, and certainly has less volatility due to the nature of the assets within the fund.Old Mutual Multi-Managers Enhanced Income Fund of FundsAs the name suggests, this fund has multi managers Prudential and Coronation to be exact. Each management company directs funds with a roughly 50/50 split. The fund has no equity exposure, no offshore exposure, and no property exposure. It has a roughly 64.5% exposure to floating rate notes, which are tied to the interest rate. The interest generated by the floating rate notes will be directly affected by South African Reserve Bank mandated interest rates. But bear in mind that if interest rates go up, inflation will likely go up too, affecting the monthly amounts due in terms of any variable interest rate contracts (bond, credit card or car payments). If we look at the fund s three- and five-year performance indicators, they are 7.2% and 6.8% respectively (annualised). It would be a better recommendation for this client to diversify his investments to include equity, property and offshore exposure. As I mentioned above, the time frame of the investment is important to know, but being 36, the reader has many more years of investment time , and can take on more risk. It comes down to the correct asset allocation, as well as management of the investment.Questions answeredIn my opinion, if the reader is looking at a short term (one-year) investment, it would be more beneficial to park the capital in the Nedbank account. He will receive a higher interest rate, and (I am assuming) pay a lower fee. The Old Mutual fund currently charges 1.27% per annum.For the short term, yes, and in the long run, yes (into a more diversified portfolio)No, the recommendation would be for the client to diversify from a fund level (by investing into more than one fund), and there is no real need to break it up into chunks; it is diversified within the funds, as well as into different funds. The index funds provided are viable options, but it would also be more beneficial to compare apples with apples. Index funds are typically at the mercy of the market, but unit trusts have the ability to change their mandate and asset allocation (unit trust dependent).&nbsp;&nbsp;