The latest iteration of the Mining Charter is a torpedo that will shatter already fragile investor confidence.It will also intensify the current private sector investment boycott, which will have negative knock-on effects on other sectors of the economy.This is unfortunate as government had an ideal opportunity to not only remove significant policy uncertainty and attract desperately-needed investment to the mining sector, but also to repair the ever-growing distrust between the private sector and government.It is puzzling as to why Mosebenzi Zwane, the Minister of Mineral Resources, did not fully engage the industry during the drafting process. It is hard to think that it was an &#8220;oversight&#8221;.In fact, this charter could have been a benchmark for all sector charters and was the ideal platform to prove government&#8217;s concrete commitment to oft made podium pledges to support economic growth and job creation.Unfortunately, the exact opposite transpired.Zwane seemed to have acted in the worst possible faith, and it would appear that attitudes on both sides are now hardening. The mining industry certainly is no longer inclined to engage.This is where the plot thickens. Zwane said he consulted widely. But if so, who with? Zuma? The Guptas? Chris Malekane? Maybe the leaked Gupta emails could provide some insights&#8230;.Industry not against transformationThe industry&#8217;s reaction should not be regarded as a stance against transformation. Each and every mining executive I have ever spoken to is committed to their companies and the transformation of the sector. Most have complied with previous iterations of the charter under difficult business conditions. The latest charter and the reaction from the industry will politicise an already explosive relationship, which was avoidable and is counterproductive to SA Inc.The mining industry is not the enemy. Unemployment and poverty is. Any transformation charter must be implementable within a reasonable commercial framework.A charter would serve no purpose if it &#8220;destroys&#8221; the industry &#8211; the word the Chamber of Mines used in its reaction to the charter.Investment boycottThe net result will be the continuation or even amplification of the current investor boycott where many private sector companies have delayed investment decisions in the face of continued policy uncertainty. This has already seen the private sector accumulate more than R1 trillion on balance sheets, a large chunk of which could find its way overseas.This process already has momentum. BHP Billiton has sold out of South Africa, while Anglo American is reducing its local assets. Others will follow. It is important to note that these disinvestment decisions were not based on empowerment legislation. These decisions were largely based on the opportunity cost of doing business in what appears to be an unfriendly climate, and which makes investments in other countries more attractive.Bernard Swanepoel articulated this expertly in a recent article that appeared in the Business Day. &#8220;As a small and insignificant player in the international and capital markets, SA doesn&#8217;t get to make the rules. We own the pitch and the ball &#8211; but if we want to play soccer, we have to play by the rules of the soccer playing world.&#8221;If there were any potential mining investors who waited for the launch of the charter before making an investment decision, my bet is that they are on their horse already.Judicial paralysisThe consequence of all of this is that the courts will again, as is the case with so many significant government decisions, become the final arbiter. It will also mean that the implementation of the charter will be delayed and this will in turn delay any potential short-term investment in the sector.So, the short- to medium-term future for the mining industry remains repressed and the green shoots of growth brutally cut off at the base.