The net effect of the recent downgrades of South Africa&#8217;s sovereign credit rating has created a heightened sense of uncertainty in the market. In times like these, it is common for investors and businesses to sit on their hands, but the worst thing that can happen to an economy is for transactions to stall. With the possibility of an interest rate increase and government spending cuts that will impact liquidity in the market, lenders are battening down the hatches to wait for the storm to blow over.While the lending appetites of big institutions is obviously lower, what&#8217;s important to remember is that prior to the downgrades, SA was experiencing a very conservative investment market. Alternative funding offers some relief for companiesFortunately, alternative financiers are not governed by the actions of big banks, they don t have to follow the very stringent regulations or the conservative lending requirements of the banks.While they are obviously very focused on risk and making sure that they are not overexposed, they are still open to lending opportunities, which the banks may not be interested in.In fact, historically, when the banks pull back, this is when alternative lenders do well.Looking back, before 2008, if you had to ask what a client was looking for in a funder it used to be the cost of the funds. Now it s about service and looking at the speed to close a transaction. Clients want to work with an institution which can make decisions quickly, they want to deal directly with a decision maker who is able to make the call without referring back to a team which may take weeks or months to get back to them. Second on the list of what today s clients are looking for is based on optimising their cash flow. Borrowers are looking for interest only facilities where they don t have to immediately start paying back the capital, and are also looking for a working capital facility. Finally they will assess the loan to value and then only rates.This priority shift will naturally come at a slight premium, but it s been our experience that borrowers are happy to pay that premium knowing they can deal with one person, get an answer immediately and have the flexibility to better manage their cash flow.While the market is not in great shape at the moment, businesses and investors can still realise growth. Companies that are showing good growth will attract the attention and money of investors who still need their capital to work for them. The key is to work with a company who is able to pinpoint the partnership opportunities and ensure transactions are still flowing.Gary Palmer is CEO of Paragon Lending Solutions.