In politically-charged times where the concept of radical economic transformation has gained popularity, attention is shifting to the skewed patterns of ownership and management in South Africa s listed property sector.While black property professionals sit on company boards and occupy management roles, few successfully launch and manage their own property companies. In fact, out of 50-odd listed property companies, only three are black managed. These include Dipula Income Fund, Rebosis Property Fund and Delta Property Fund.However, Investec Property Fund (IPF) has brave ambitions of changing this.In a rare deal for the sector, IPF established a Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) group Izandla Property Fund, which plans to grow into a black-owned JSE-listed company in the next five years.Investec Property, an arm of Investec Bank, will support Izandla with the skills, expertise and knowledge, while Investec Property Fund will provide capital for future property deals.This model is the antithesis of the usual BEE deals whereby black individuals purchase discounted stakes in blue-chip companies, leading to a coterie of politically connected and wealthy individuals.IPF CEO Nick Riley said the company didn t want to only create an empowerment shareholding structure, but it wanted Izandla to use the skills of IPF to create a company that would raise capital and purchase sizable properties on its own. We are trying to break down the barriers of entry to the property sector, Riley told Moneyweb.Izandla s major shareholders include charitable trust the Entrepreneurship Development Trust (EDT) and IPF, which will own a 65% and 35% stake respectively. Izandla has a black female ownership of greater than 30% and has a level two BEE rating, which is considered to be substantially empowered.An Izandla CEO will be appointed and the board will include Sthembile Nkabinde, an accountant who founded black-owned private equity and investment vehicle Khulasande Capital.Izandla will initially start with a commercial property portfolio worth R580 million, mostly properties transferred from IPF s property portfolio. Izandla s initial property deal will be announced in July. Riley said upon listing on the JSE, Izandla could have a property portfolio worth R5 billion. The deal will also boost the empowerment credentials of IPF, which currently has a level three BEE rating.Slow start for transformation in listed propertyRiley said because the property industry is capital intensive many emerging black property entrepreneurs are finding it difficult to enter the industry. I don t think the industry has done a great job in terms of transforming, educating and upskilling professionals. We don t have black professionals in the industry that are able to raise capital to get into property. Supporting Riley s views is research from the Property Sector Charter Council (PSCC), which measured the state of transformation against the Property Sector Transformation Charter. On a yearly basis, the PSCC conducts research into listed property s performance on transformation. The sample in its 2015-2016 research includes listed property companies and their BEE scorecards are measured against ownership, management control, employment equity, skills development, preferential procurement, enterprise development, socio-economic development and economic development. See results below. Property Sector Charter Council researchTransformation pillarsScore achievedScore target Ownership16.520Management control5.9610Employment equity8.2215Skills development10.4115Preferential procurement16.4420Enterprise development1110Socio-economic development2.292Economic development8.0715Source: PSCC. Portia Tau-Sekati, the CEO of PSCC, said more focus is required on skills development, management control, employment equity and economic development when it comes to transformation. You need to have black people and women in management and invest their talent to achieve skills development targets. By the same token, you need to invest in skills management to achieve your targets for talented black management in the future, said Tau-Sekati.But for Vuyiswa Mutshekwane, the CEO of the South African Institute of Black Property Practitioners, the biggest challenge to transformation in the industry is the lack of passion for committing to it. There is a lot of lip service paid to transformation and that s why we see an industry that is male and pale. There needs to be the will from the private sector to say we are not just going to give 1% equity but we are actually going to develop companies . 