Shares in Sanlam inched higher on Wednesday afternoon after it reported an annual increase of 9% in normalised headline earnings per share during the four months ended April 30, 2017.&nbsp;&nbsp;This, as a stronger investment market performance in 2017 buoyed investment return earned on the financial services group s capital base.According to Sanlam, investment market reaction to the midnight cabinet reshuffle &#8211; in which former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas were removed &#8211; and the subsequent ratings downgrades were not as adverse as anticipated as renewed global interest in emerging markets provided some support to the rand, equity markets and long-term interest rates. The renewed political and policy uncertainties were, however, detrimental to investor, business and consumer confidence, which impacted on the group s new business growth in the mass affluent and high net worth segments, and will also delay any meaningful improvement in economic and employment conditions, Sanlam said in a Sens statement. Lower lump-sum inflows at Glacier, Sanlam Investments Retail and Sanlam Private Wealth contributed to a 4% decrease in new business volumes to R71 billion. New business volumes at Glacier came under pressure, falling 14% over the four-month period. Political and economic uncertainty also weighed on Sanlam Personal Finance. A decline in discretionary single premium business in the mass affluent market torpedoed growth in the division s more profitable recurring premium risk business, resulting in an overall decrease in new business sales of 10%. The decline in single premium new finance saw overall net fund flows at group level fall to R12 billion from R16 billion previously.Sanlam Sky, which caters to the entry level market, bucked the trend as new business sales increased 27%. However, sales of savings products decreased by 49% and overall new recurring business in the individual life segment fell 5%.At the same time, new business volumes in its middle-income market rose 4% as demand for products that provided an investment guarantee increased. Sanlam s Emerging Markets proved to be a bright spot, with overall new business growth increasing 20% despite the negative impact of the stronger rand. On a constant currency basis, new business volumes increased 29%.The group expects challenging economic and operating conditions to persist for the remainder of the year. It said growth may be affected by continued investor risk aversion, average investment market levels, long-term interest rates and the relative rand strength. We are confident that the group is well-positioned to weather the current headwinds and continue to deliver value for our shareholders and other stakeholders. We continue to focus hard on businesses not meeting our required hurdle rates, chief executive Ian Kirk said.