A broad decline in commodities dragged European equities lower, while US stock futures also dropped on a report the probe into Russian meddling in the 2016 election may also examine President Donald Trump s conduct. The dollar rose after the Fed s hawkish tone on Wednesday.Bloomberg s commodity index fell to the lowest in more than a year as copper dropped and oil fluctuated. Miners and energy explorers were among the big losers as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated for a second day. The dollar advanced after the Fed raised interest rates for the second time in 2017 and chair Janet Yellen suggested the strength of the US labor market will ultimately prevail over recent weakness in inflation.Yellen played down a softening of price pressures in the last few months and voiced confidence the central bank was on course to hit its 2% inflation goal. The Fed s actions and words struck a careful balance between showing resolve to continue tightening in response to falling unemployment while acknowledging the persistence of unexpectedly low inflation this year. Policy makers agreed to raise their benchmark lending rate for the third time in six months, maintained their outlook for one more hike in 2017 and set out some details for how they intend to shrink their $4.5 trillion balance sheet this year.Meanwhile, the special counsel investigating Russia s interference in the 2016 election plans to interview two top US intelligence officials about whether Trump sought their help to get the FBI to back off a related probe of former National Security adviser Michael Flynn, according to three people familiar with the inquiry.Here are the key events investors will be watching this week:Central banks in Switzerland and Britain are also scheduled to weigh in with policy. The Bank of Japan concludes a two-day meeting on Friday. While economists don t expect any significant changes to monetary policy, they will parse the BOJ s statement and Governor Haruhiko Kuroda s comments for clues to the outlook for inflation.Here are the major movers:StocksS&amp;P 500 futures dropped 0.7% as of 11:41 am in London. The gauge fell 0.1% on Wednesday, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq indexes retreated 0.4%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average edged higher to a fresh record. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 0.8% as miners tumbled 2%.CurrenciesThe Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index rose 0.3% following three days of losses. The yen was 0.1% weaker at 109.64 per dollar after climbing 0.5 % Wednesday. The British pound weakened 0.4% to $1.2698 and the euro retreated 0.5% to $1.1165.BondsThe yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose one basis point to 2.14 %, after dropping 8.5 basis points Wednesday to 2.13 %, the lowest level since November. European bonds tracked the move in Treasuries on Wednesday, with the yield on benchmark U.K. bonds rising three basis points to 0.95 % and those of French and German peers increasing five and three basis points, respectively.CommoditiesWest Texas crude futures swung between losses and gains before trading little changed at $44.72 a barrel, following a 3.7% drop in the previous session. US gasoline supplies unexpectedly rose for a second week. Gold slipped 0.2% to $1 258.63 an ounce after sliding 0.5% the previous day.AsiaThe Australian dollar rose after employment surged in May. The New Zealand dollar fell as data showed the economy grew less than expected in the first quarter. Australia s S&amp;P/ASX 200 Index slumped 1.2%, with energy and raw-material shares dropping more than 2%. The Hang Seng Index slid 1.2% as Hong Kong followed the Fed s move, elevating the risk of a selloff in the world s priciest housing market. 2017 Bloomberg