Overseas donors play a key role in funding South African universities, and it is vital that more local individuals, companies and philanthropists come on board to support them financially for long-term sustainability.This is particularly the case for poorer universities, where many students fall outside funding schemes. Higher education bodies would also benefit from upskilling their senior fund-raising and support staff, who already attract around R2 billion every year for the sector.These are some key findings in the third and latest Annual Survey of Philanthropy in Higher Education (ASPIHE) released by Inyathelo, the South African Institute for Advancement.The eleven universities, which form part of the survey, received a collective total of over R1.2 billion in philanthropic income during 2015, said said Inyathelo programme manager Nazli Abrahams. This is R515 million higher than recorded for ten universities in the first (2013) sample.The report also revealed:Figure 1: Income by donor sector &#8211; 2015Source: ASPIHE &nbsp;Figure 2: International donors contributed over half of philanthropic income (ZAR million) &#8211; 2015Source: ASPIHE While international funding is welcome and vital at present, this heavy dependence on overseas philanthropists is potentially disastrous given global geopolitical shifts, said Abrahams.As borne out by new policies in the US, foreign philanthropic income streams are unpredictable and unreliable. Support from abroad can be curtailed by shifting political moods, new crises elsewhere in the world, changing leadership of charitable organisations, foreign exchange fluctuations, and other variables. One strategic priority must be strengthening and extending relationships with existing local donors and cultivating new local donors from among those who have yet to fund higher education institutions, she added.Professional support staffProperly trained and resourced professionals, proficient in matters such as financial management and fundraising tools, are key to sustainability, Abrahams said.Excluding interns, the eleven universities employed 178 full-time and part-time staff in fundraising, development and alumni relations in 2015 (up from 136 staff in the 2013 sample.) Some 45% worked in fundraising and development, 30% in alumni relations, and 25% in support functions in 2015. Ultimately, the game-changing potential of philanthropy in higher education will only be realised to the full if university operations are professionalised, institutionally entrenched and properly resourced, said Abrahams. If advancement professionals are encouraged and supported, the philanthropic appeal of South African universities can be assured well into the future. The advancement method is a multi-layered approach to organisational sustainability. It promotes and teaches ten elements ranging from fundraising tools to strategy, leadership and relationship-building. We have always advised that universities diversify their funding streams, and offer training in adopting a systematic and integrated approach to building and managing relationships with key stakeholders, said Inyathelo executive director Jessica Rees-Jones. As South Africa marks Youth Month (June 2017) with the theme of Advancing Youth Economic Empowerment , it is vital that we ensure the long-term sustainability of our tertiary education institutions. They are key to growing the skills and talents of young people so that they can fulfil their potential and also contribute to our country s economic development and productivity. The eleven universities that took part in this survey are Cape Peninsula University of Technology, University of Cape Town, Durban University of Technology, University of the Free State, University of Johannesburg, University of KwaZulu-Natal, University of Pretoria, Tshwane University of Technology, University of the Western Cape, University of the Witwatersrand and University of Zululand.The research was funded by the Kresge Foundation (kresge.org).Download the full ASPIHE report here.