Conversations about artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning often give rise to fantastical and futuristic images of ever evolving super-bots that have the potential to sow mayhem and chaos in the world.You can rest assured that the machines have not taken over the world, but applications of artificial intelligence are already creeping into our lives in multiple, often invisible ways. It is AI that directs Siri, Apple&#8217;s voice-controlled personal assistant, and AI that is already trading stocks and shares on global markets and directing driverless cars, which fortunately or unfortunately have not yet reached South Africa s roads.Thus it should come as no major surprise when local fund managers introduce AI into their portfolio management methodology in a bid to better manage performance outcomes.Sanlam Global Investment Solutions (SGIS) has announced that an advanced AI and Machine Learning investment engine now manages its Sanlam Managed Risk Fund. This makes it the first Balanced Fund in the world to be fully driven by AI. The financial markets have been through significant change in recent years. With unprecedented central bank participation, markets now move faster than ever before. Investment strategies need to keep pace, says Cobus Kruger, CEO of SGIS.The reason is that even semi-automated strategies are battling in today&#8217;s markets. Typically Sanlam&#8217;s Managed Risk Fund relied on quantitative processes whereby mathematicians identified consistent patterns, modelled those patterns and used the resulting algorithms to predict movements in securities and markets. The problem, says Kruger, is that algorithms are unable to react fast enough to reshaped markets where one sees a sharp decline, followed by a quick rebound for no apparent reason. As fast as they are, algorithms cannot adapt fast enough with the result that the fund is left exposed when the market moves unexpectedly in the opposite direction. The purpose of AI is to help humans more efficiently process and interpret the vast amounts of data. Machine Learning autonomously learns and adapts to new data without being preprogrammed and at speeds that are far beyond human capacity. These two factors together should provide good value and help deliver better, more consistent outcomes for investors, he says.It is not a case of man vs machines, adds David Itzkovits head of investments for SGIS, it&#8217;s man with machines vs man without. The best example of a company that employs this methodology is global hedge fund manager Renaissance Capital, which deploys the methodology for its proprietary purposes.SGIS, which manages funds worth half a billion dollars plans to switch all of its systematically managed money into this focus. It is not a so much a revolution, but an evolution, Kruger says. The technology employed has been developed by UK financial technology business AI Machines, which develops artificial intelligence and machine learning based investment strategies.AI &amp; ML can be applied in investment management broadly in two ways:The first is enhancement of a manager s current investment process: By producing timelier asset allocation and stock allocation buy/sell signals on a portfolio of instruments chosen directly by the investment manager.The second is the way the Sanlam Managed Risk Fund has chosen to use it: Total automation of the investment process. Meaning the AI selects the optimal portfolio allocation based on a pre-defined investment strategy with objectives, constraints and investable instruments. &#8220;This strategy has other advantages in that it removes the risk of behavioural biases influencing investment decisions,&#8221; Kruger says.The fund is a global equity fund that will gain market exposure (beta) through Sanlam s Global Equities Tracker Fund. The fund objective, which is to ensure that investor capital is protected against loss, remains the same. &#8220;This is not necessarily about better results; it s a quest for more consistent results, we want to manage expectations and deliver what it says on the tin, says Kruger.