The investment holding company with investments in the renewable energy space announced maiden results in combination with a new acquisition on Thursday. Hulisani has acquired a stake in Momentous Technology for R122 million. Momentous is a holding company that owns Rustomo1, which has the distinction of being the country s first operational renewable energy project that was connected to the grid in November 2013. Rustomo1 comprises a 7 Megawatt solar photovoltaic (PV) plant in which Hulisani will have effective control. It s quite a symbolic investment for us as the owner and for the industry as a whole, says Hulisani s Chief Investment Officer, Marubini Raphulu. He notes that the project has been outperforming its original operational parameters. Earlier this year, Hulisani invested in the Kouga wind farm. We made a R146 million investment for a 6.67% stake in the farm with the idea that we would be able to exercise further pre-emptive rights in the future that would see us increase our ownership over time, as other investors exit, says Raphulu. With the two investments, Hulisani has now spent roughly R300 million of the R500 million it raised when it listed in April last year. Hulisani is in the process of raising more capital and finalising a number of transactions. From our perspective, we are seeing a very strong pipeline of investment opportunities, says Raphulu. With many of these projects receiving purchase power agreements for as long as 20 years, many developers don t want to stay for the full term. Our whole strategy, as long-term investors, is to build a portfolio of geographically and technologically diversified assets, which through our listing, will provide institutional investors with a liquid investment in which they can get exposure to the renewable and conventional energy sector, says Raphulu. Hulisani earned interest income of R25.7 million against expenses of R31.7 million. The company posted a loss of 13 cents per share, with headline earnings per share showing a loss of 1 cent per share. The net asset value per share at the 28 February 2017 is R9.88 per share. Hulisani s share price remains unchanged at R10 per share.