SIKI MGABADELI: Time now for our Tipping Point feature, which is where we speak to some of our country s leaders in various spheres. They tell us about the different moments in their lives and their careers that led to their success.Today we speak to the CEO of The National Empowerment Fund, Philisiwe Mthethwa. Philisiwe, thanks so much for making the time to talk to us today. I think people know the work you ve done with the NEF but, before we get there, I want to understand at what point you thought, ah, I want to go into the world of finance.PHILISIWE MTHETHWA: Okay. Good evening, Siki, and good evening to our listeners, and thank you for having me. Siki, I actually come from a unit of very hard-working and driven individuals. So when we were growing up you didn t have toys, a lot of options, in terms of which you could go to varsity and study, because your parents would just feed you and They were very clear. I guess it&#8217;s because they didn t have the means. So with the little bit they had you couldn t decide and say, oh, I want to go and do dancing classes or whatever. They were very clear that it&#8217;s either this or nothing. So that s where it actually comes from.SIKI MGABADELI: So you were good at maths, science, that stuff? Is that what led to the finance side?PHILISIWE MTHETHWA: Yes, I was actually good at mathematics but I had a brother who was like a maths guru and I&#8217;m sure everybody today is talking about my brother, Nkanyiso Buthelezi. I remember when I got to Grade 11 there was a time when I was actually struggling with mathematics and it was not an option. So during the holidays he would assist me and help me with some of the equations and all of those algorithms and all of those things. So that s where I got support. It wasn t an option. He was very good at maths and my younger brother as well. So because of those I was able.SIKI MGABADELI: What&#8217;s the best part of your job, and what&#8217;s the worst part?PHILISIWE MTHETHWA: I can enjoy the challenges that I was actually faced with when I took over as the CEO of the National Empowerment Fund. By the way, Siki, I love challenges. If somebody puts me in an organisation where business things are stable, you just confuse If you say to me. Go and transform this entity, please go and turn it around, I think that s what drives me.So obviously it would be the NEF, any troubles at the NEF. By the way, it was led by two male CEOs, and they were not able to turn it around. So if you want to turn anything around SIKI MGABADELI: You are the person to do it.PHILISIWE MTHETHWA: Yes. Or if you want to turn around strategies for a company you must talk to a woman.SIKI MGABADELI: [Laughing] I wish we had more time, but we have run out of time. We need to have a fuller conversation. We are going to do this. Thanks for your time today. [Chuckling] If you want something done right, get a woman!Philisiwe Mthethwa is CEO of the National Empowerment Fund.