Comair&#8217;s frustration with the cost and quality of its catering suppliers five years ago prompted the listed airline company to enter the kitchen.It decided to insource its catering and the efficiencies it gained has had them surprised, says Comair CEO Erik Venter.These days its Food Directions operations in Jet Park, near OR Tambo airport, and in Cape Town prepare up to 10 000 airline meals per day and the business has branched out to supply health products to retailers like Dis-Chem.All of this is done at a healthy margin and growth prospects are endless, Venter says.The people who make money in the airline business, are the suppliers, not the airlines, says Venter. He explains that through the diversification and insourcing Comair now shares in that value chain.The company has previously in-sourced its pilot training and is now providing training to other entities, including the Indian Air Force.Supplying food for the flying public is no simple matter, Venter says. The group invested R30 million in HACCP compliant ISO standard kitchens. HACCP is a preventative food safety system in which each step of production, storage and distribution is analysed for microbiological, physical and chemical hazards.Food Directions can literally trace every batch of food from where the chicken is born to the passenger consuming it.The limitations on airline catering are numerous. The chef has to compensate for the loss of up to 30% of taste at altitude and the loss of smell due to pressurisation, while sticking to health requirements and budget. Passengers nevertheless expect a good meal that looks attractive.Meals are perishable and are prepared one day in advance. They are blast chilled and the temperature must be maintained at 4-5 degrees Celsius until it is reheated on board.The caterer has to present the dish within the dimensions of the tray and nothing can, for example, be higher than 4cm. He also has to take into account that the time and effort of cabin crew to dish up is extremely limited.Venter says Comair was surprised at the level of efficiencies it gained by insourcing its catering. The operations are consolidated in the Comair numbers, but on a stand-alone basis Food Directions would have made a profit of R37 million in its first year. That is off a food bill that would have been around R140 million for the year.Since then costs have been maintained at the same level, which means the savings have increased to around R50 million per year, says Venter.Food Directions supplies the two Comair brands, namely kulula.com and British Airways (operated by Comair) that fly on domestic and regional routes only as well as CemAir.The number of passengers, and split between luxury and economy for every flight, is communicated to the business and trollies are packed accordingly. The system has to limit wastage while being flexible enough to deal with flight delays and providing extra meals for passengers booking at the last minute.Food Directions did pitch for other airline business, but airlines tend to squeeze margins to a level where quality has to be compromised to a point where Food Directions walks away, says Venter.The investment in delivery vehicles for international carriers is high and unsustainable on the short-term contracts that are on offer, he says.This led to Food Directions branching out through its Eatrite unit to supply health food products to retail clients. It currently has 12 product lines in Dis-Chem shops and supplies health food retailer FitChef and some Spar and Pick n Pay outlets, as well as some specialised baby shops.Venter says supplying retailers is much simpler that supplying airlines. The products include things like biscuits and snacks with a longer shelf life. They can be stored and delivery is much less complex. Often one simply delivers to a warehouse and the retail group distributes to individual outlets. It is still early days for Food Directions and Eatrite, says Venter. The group has just bought 25% of the business park in Jet Park where the operations are situated. There is still 75% to go , he jokes.He does believe the opportunities are endless. Who knows, we might become as famous as Sally Williams, he tells Moneyweb.&nbsp;