JESSICA HUBBARD: Welcome to this Moneyweb Investment feature on the UK care-home market. My name is Jessica Hubbard, and our guest today is Arran Kerkvliet, investment director at One Touch, the London-based student property brokerage. Thanks for joining us today, Arran.ARRAN KERKVLIET: Thank you.JESSICA HUBBARD: Arran, would you give us some context around this market, and just go through the opportunities that lie there for South African investors?ARRAN KERKVLIET: Globally the median age of populations is rising. That could be a problem because what it means is that those people of working age and retirees who generate the income tax to cover the welfare cost and the caring of the elderly so the percentage of people who retire financially independent generally is only around 5% of the population.The majority of retirees will need to work in America. Thomson Reuters have done a study and about 74% of Americans believe they will be working after 65. In the UK 14% of retirees actually are living in poverty according to Age UK. And in the latter years the likelihood of needing additional medical care increases. In South Africa comparatively the number of people over 65 is around 8%, and the number is growing. By comparison, in the UK it&#8217;s already 17% and projected to be 23% by 2025. So the proportion of the UK s ageing population a lot of them are a lot older than that, some aged over 90 has been increasing since the 1980s. By 2040 one in seven is projected to be aged 75. As part of this growth the number of over-85s is estimated to be 1.5 million, and that s going to grow to 3.6 million by 2039.What this means is an expensive demand for care homes in the UK, and the opportunity is for South Africans to invest in that sector and help them to cover their own retirement income.JESSICA HUBBARD: Yes, and the numbers really are quite astounding. What is the current policy around home care in the UK, and what should investors be aware of?ARRAN KERKVLIET: It&#8217;s a more social country. For the person living in the UK who has a need for nursing care and has less than 23 250 of personal assets the government will cover the full cost of care. This applies to the care of the elderly and infirm, and specialist dementia care. There is a means test whereby some of the level of contribution will be towards the care by the family, and up to 118 000. Thereafter they have to pay for it completely themselves.In a way, as an investment class the UK care homes provides a certain level of income because if the rich can afford to pay they will pay, and if other people can&#8217;t afford to, the government subsidises those who cannot.JESSICA HUBBARD: Let&#8217;s just go into some of the factors that are influencing this market. You mentioned the increase in dementia. What should we know about there? How does it impact the potential investment horizon?ARRAN KERKVLIET: The number of UK patients recorded with dementia increased 62% over the seven years from 2007 to 2014, according to the Health and Social Information Centre. With dementia people have memory loss. They suffer from confusion and in the latter stages they have a total loss of personality. So what this requires is 24-hour care with qualified nurses. This can&#8217;t be conducted at home. So with that specialist-care requirement and obviously that being a rather politically sensitive area the government looks to partner with and provide care facilities to accommodate these people.JESSICA HUBBARD: And there is the increase in privatisation, which I imagine is also impacting the landscape over there.ARRAN KERKVLIET: Sure. The National Health Service, which is the UK s health department, has been reducing the capital that they ve been investing, and by that I mean direct investment where they d be building care homes previously. What they are looking to do moving forward is seeking out private partners to developing managed-care homes. So, for instance, Virgin Care entered the market in 2010, and over the past six years they ve been awarded contracts worth more than 1 billion, and run over 200 of the NHS s services. Private companies are developing and managing care homes and other hospitals. The government essentially pays the bill and gets the professionals to look after the patients in that sector.JESSICA HUBBARD: So there clearly is growth. Let&#8217;s get down to the nitty-gritty of how SA investors can actually make direct investments into this market. How do you go about it?ARRAN KERKVLIET: One could purchase a care-home suite in a luxury retirement home which is for over-65s. Or they could purchase a care-home suite in a care home catering for dementia patients. In both instances the care-home operator will lease the property back from the investor, with a net yield of up to 10% per annum. The care-home operator essentially runs the business from the premises and rents the property from the investor on a long lease of ten years. High-yielding hands-off investments like care-home accommodation and senior accommodation have been very popular with overseas investors because they are fully managed and pay a regular income. This sort of specialist sector is what global investors are seeking to diversity their incomes.JESSICA HUBBARD: There is actually another element to this, and that is the luxury care-home sector. Give us some context around this sector and what the opportunities are in the luxury market.ARRAN KERKVLIET: Luxury care homes typically attract more self-paying residents due to the higher weekly rents. Luxury care homes are aimed at over-65s who wish to downsize their houses and move into a community environment, similar to the retirement villages in South Africa. They provide an assisted-living environment where residents can maintain independence. But they are also given personal care and opportunities to socialise at weekly events such as wine-tasting, social games, nature walks, etc. There is a demand for these care-home suites in the most affluent parts of south-western England such as Somerset, where 26% of the population are over 65 years of age. A senior executive at CBRE, which is a global real estate company comments that they are staying in care homes more to improve their lifestyle and for mental stimulation and a social environment, rather than absolute need. So the opportunity to invest in luxury care homes is proving a lucrative one and the average care home in that sector s average room is making 30 000 profit and 2 million per home, because the weekly fees have increased by more than 50% over the past ten years. So it&#8217;s really driven by the lack of available debt and obviously, like you mentioned, the strong demand. So investors have recognised these high returns and there is a strong appetite for the luxury care. I suppose what&#8217;s on the horizon is that in comparison nursing care like dementia care is only paying about an 8% yield. And, certainly with regard to Brexit and the shortage of nurses, that could drive up the running costs for nursing care homes, where the luxury care homes are really more like a service department, where the developer will enter into the long lease. But it s obviously for paying customers and has a more luxury appeal, which I think a lot of people are more comfortable with investing in.JESSICA HUBBARD: There definitely is a lot of opportunity in the sector. That s very clear from what you are saying. Arran, how can our listeners get in touch with you if they want to find out more and take steps towards making a direct investment?ARRAN KERKVLIET: Well, investors could read our care-home investments guide about the viability of investing in the luxury care-home sector. That s free to download by clicking this link for the free care-home investment guide.JESSICA HUBBARD: That was Arran Kerkvliet, investment director at One Touch Property, the London-based student property brokerage. Brought to you by One Touch Investment UK.&nbsp;