Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Mayhem in the UKThis was not in the programme. The pound slumped against all its major peers this morning as Theresa May&#8217;s electoral gamble backfired. Rather than securing an enhanced mandate to take the UK into exit talks with the European Union, she&#8217;s lost her majority. With 648 of 650 seats declared by 5am Eastern Time, the Tories had 316 and Labour 261. May is scheduled to visit Buckingham Palace at 12:30pm London time to ask permission to form a new government with support of the Norther Irish DUP. But so many questions remain. Can she stay on as Conservative leader? Who would replace her? And does Brexit still mean Brexit?Comey bombshellFormer FBI chief James Comey&#8217;s first public appearance since his May 9 firing contained no shortage of excitements, even while he largely hewed to previously reported details. President Donald Trump s lawyer said he denies ever pressuring Comey to pledge his personal loyalty, or to drop an investigation of Michael Flynn, and accused Comey of undermining Trump s administration. The president himself tweeted that the hearing provided &#8220;total and complete vindication.&#8221; We&#8217;re likely to get more presidential reaction when Trump holds a 2:45 p.m news conference with his Romanian counterpart. Markets ignore MayA trio of major news events this week have all but failed to wrest markets from low volatility&#8217;s grip. Meanwhile, the pound&#8217;s drop gave the stocks of British exporters a boost, but the election s impact beyond the UK was muted. The euro extended its run of losses into a third day, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index swung between gains and losses. Fears of a supply glut continue to weigh on oil, but it managed to reverse an earlier decline.BrazilThe nationally-televised trial engrossing Brazilians is pointing to an exoneration of embattled President Michel Temer. The country&#8217;s top electoral court dismissed recent graft testimony from its deliberations on the allegedly illegal financing of the 2014 election campaign, in a victory for the president&#8217;s defense. Proceedings are due to resume at 9am today and a verdict on the case is expected later in the day, according to the electoral court s vice president Luiz Fux. Elsewhere in Brazil news, L&#8217;Oreal is said to be in exclusive talks with Sao Paulo-based Natura Cosmeticos SA for a $1.1 billion deal to buy the Body Shop chain. Coming up&#8230;European election fever continues for those not sated by the UK&#8217;s jaw-dropping result. Emmanuel Macron is predicted to brook no such upsets in the French parliamentary election this Sunday, however, with his party on course to secure a majority amid what could be record abstentions. Next week is a big one for central banks, with the Federal Reserve projected to raise the US benchmark interest rate a quarter of a percentage point on June 14, and policy decisions expected from the UK, Japan, and Russia. 2017 Bloomberg