PSG, which has reported a total return of 48.2% to shareholders over 22 years, compared to the JSE s 14.3%, is betting that education and energy are its next two big growth industries, with financial services and agriculture supporting this growth.It is putting its money where its mouth is and has R1.7 billion available for new investments.On the education front management is quietly convinced that Chris van der Merwe, who founded education provider Curro 20 years ago with 28 pupils in a church classroom, can repeat his success with Stadio. This is the new tertiary education provider that PSG plans to list later this year.At listing Stadio will comprise four brands (teacher training college Embury; CA Connect; AFDA, the film, television, performance, business innovation and computer technology school; and Southern Business School) which collectively offer 27 accredited programmes ranging from diplomas to masters and if all goes well, a PhD programme. There are great brands in this country that play in the private space, but are isolated from each other. If we can craft them together and centralise some processes we think we can build a successful multi-versity, said Chris van der Merwe, speaking at the PSG AGM in Stellenbosch last week.All eyes will be on Stadio at listing with investors hoping it can mimic Curro s CAGR of 42% since listing in June 2011.Van der Merwe retires as CEO of Curro in order to take up the reins at Stadio. Chris retires on the 30th June. He has one night off and starts his new job on 1 July, says PSG CEO Piet Mouton. On a more serious note, he added: He is the best entrepreneur I have ever met and I think his can do attitude is unmatched in SA. At Curro, longstanding COO Andries Greyling will succeed Van der Merwe. Now a sizeable company, there is no sign that SA&#8217;s schools market is saturated and thus there are no plans to steady Curro&#8217;s growth trajectory.Curro management has reanalysed the market and aims to have 200 schools in the group by 2020 and 500 by 2030. There is massive potential in this market. We are confident we can reach our targets, says Greyling.In South Africa 4.1% of primary school children are enrolled in independent institutions compared to 19% in developing countries and 10% in developed countries. In high school almost 30% of children in developing countries are enrolled in independent schools compared to 18% in developed countries and 4.2% in South Africa. We think we have a solid chance to reach our targets, Van der Merwe adds.Curro and Stadio are complemented by investments in two companies that provide digital education solutions and are housed in PSG s business accelerator PSG alpha: FutureLearn, previously Impaq, which provides education solutions to schools, tutors, parents and learners and ITSI, an e-learning company that provides digital teaching solutions to 74 000 students at 180 schools.However it appears that energy is the sector that is currently occupying the minds of management. PSG has R1.7 billion available in its subsidiary PSG Alpha for new investments. If all goes according to plan, it will spend the bulk of this on new energy investments in the next couple of months, says Mouton.Energy Partners, in which PSG alpha has a 63% stake, could be the vehicle for this growth. We think this is a massive opportunity going forward. Our vision is to turn this company into the leading independent energy provider in Africa. This is what we do. We are known for our ability to grow small businesses big, he says, and we plan to use PSG alpha to find the next big growth investment. Energy Partners designs, implements and manages energy saving solutions for the home, small and large business and has expertise that extends from solar installations to refrigeration and water desalination. We have a water company in there that can help to solve the water crisis in Cape Town through desalination and reverse osmosis. Hopefully the right people will make the right decisions. While Mouton noted that it is not easy to grow a company while the economy is stagnant, PSG has the necessary ingredients to generate growth in each of its platform companies. We have the best management teams in the specific markets in which we operate; the companies all sit with low market shares, which creates the opportunity for growth; we have good operating models and low gearing. You don t want to be too highly geared in this current environ of downgrades this is something you need to look out for, he says.Speaking earlier in the day, PSG chairman Jannie Mouton noted that given PSG&#8217;s current size (market cap = R54 billion) it would be highly unlikely, if not impossible, to match the 48% CAGR achieved to date. &#8220;That said, assuming the company achieves a 15% CAGR over the next ten years the share price will reach R943 and the company s market cap will balloon to R206 billion. If the CAGR reaches 25% the share price will rise to R2170 in the decade, with market cap rising to R475 billion. This tells you that there is potential. And from where we come from, 15% is not the way we like to do things. 