The organisation that describes itself as the so-called plumbing of the South African economy is gearing up to play a lead role in modernising the country s National Payments System (NPS).This is according to BankservAfrica s CEO, Chris Hamilton, who, as an Australian citizen, had undertaken a similar process in his land of birth before being hired by BankservAfrica to undertake a very similar assignment. Let s be clear, South Africa s NPS is still world class. But it s probably not evolving as fast as it should be, especially since there is major structural change taking place in the payment systems of developed countries around the world, Hamilton says during the interview with Moneyweb at BankservAfrica s offices in Selby.Hamilton describes the work that needs to happen as a process of modernising not overhauling . He explains that one of the strengths of the country s system is that it has a massive network effect; many institutions and consumers are already linked and its utility (usefulness) is strong. (Like with cell phone coverage, the system becomes more useful as more people join and interact with it.) All that is required to transact on the NPS is a bank account and access to basic telecommunications infrastructure, like 3G.So what needs to change? The NPS is in fact a combination of systems. In one format bank card (debit or credit) consumers engage in transactions with retailers in order to pay for goods and services. In Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) format, consumers and businesses need to pay counterparties for goods and services, and the technology behind this is based on low data, overnight batch systems that carry just enough information to execute payment. While many countries have sped this process up depending on who is being paid and to which bank money is being sent, it s a process that can be dramatically improved, says Hamilton.Despite South Africa s payment system being world class, financial exclusion is still a large challenge 84% of the country is banked defined as those individuals possessing a bank account. A key focus in modernising the system will be to bring more people into it. The big change we are seeing overseas is that systems are becoming real-time, which is consistent with modern living, and this applies specifically to the EFT-type payments,&#8221; Hamilton says. &#8220;So what we are looking to do is drastically speed up the system which in turn will support the digitisation of the economy.&#8221;The CEO has designated 4 design principles as fundamental to the project:But don t expect any sudden changes, as the process is still very much at conceptual stage. There is a strong acceptance we need to upgrade the payments system, but we are at an early stage in terms of the system we should design. So we and the Payments Association of South Africa (Pasa) are currently conducting research on what systems have been used overseas, and on what South Africa will need in the future. Then we are going to present our findings, and get approval and consensus from the regulator (South African Reserve Bank) and the commercial banks to ensure the system is compliant and relevant, says Hamilton.Other stakeholders that will be consulted include large retail companies, pension funds and medical insurance companies, and entities involved in administering social grants. Hamilton expects the research to be completed in August and thereafter will most likely publish a high level proposed design paper for public consultation. After that, &#8220;there will be a lot of arguing to do&#8221;. Looking for a financial education solution for your staff? First name* Last name* Contact Number* Email* Company nameSize of workforceCommentsThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.