Retailer, manufacturer and logistics operator Steinhoff has gone from calling itself the second largest furniture and household goods retailer in Europe, to the third largest integrated household goods retailer in the world.The change in labels follows an extended acquisition spree that has seen the group acquire six companies in the last 18 months (and a similar number in the 18 months prior to that). In the last six months the acquisitions of US-based Mattress Firm, UK-based Poundland, Australian retailer Fantastic Furniture and SA s Tekkie Town became effective and added 26% to revenue and 8.7% to earnings.Overall the group says operating profit rose by 13% to 903 million and revenues by 48% to 10.1 billion in the six months to end-March.But diluted sustainable earnings per share, which exclude specific capital items, and are net of related taxation and non-controlling interests, fell 6% to 15.50 euro cents after the firm issued shares to finance the acquisitions.In time Steinhoff may add e-tailer to its list of labels. Another acquisition made in May, after the reporting period, is a 17% stake in Showroompriv , a European digital retailer specialising in online event sales of fashion and homewares that is listed on Euronext Paris.For this stake Steinhoff, via its French subsidiary Conforama, paid a hefty 157 million. Conforama will enter into a concert agreement with the founders of Showroompriv and together they will control 54.5% of the votes of the company.According to the company, the parties hope to use Conforama s retail footprint and Showroompriv s digital presence to strengthen their omni-channel offering in the retail market.This deal cuts to the heart of some of the concerns analysts have about the company: The core of the company is not a concern, says Evan Walker, a fund manager with 36One Asset Management. There are a lot of moving parts but disclosure is good and the company is now easy to understand. While performance across the group which extends from South Africa to Australia, Europe and the US was mixed, the overall result was acceptable. You have to hand it to management; they have achieved respectable growth off benign sales in a very difficult climate. The elephant in the room, he says, centres on the recent acquisitions, in particular Mattress Firm and to a lesser extent Poundland.Steinhoff paid $3.8 billion for Mattress Firm and incurred restructuring costs of $48 million in this financial half. Management is talking optimistically about resurrecting this business within one to two years. I m less confident; I d venture that this was a bold acquisition considering the state of the US retail market. For many observers the jury is out on whether the US retail landscape is in a state of permanent decline. An estimated 9 000 retail outlets closed last year, says Walker, as shoppers shunned strip malls and destination centres for online retail. Bricks and mortar retailers are getting slaughtered. Online is offering more variety at the same or better price. In this climate Steinhoff bought a company with 3 800 stores and the first decision management made was to end the relationship with Tempur Sealy, one of the top three mattress brands in the world. If your business model is moving online why would you can a brand that represents 25% of your online sales? Walker asks.To compensate, Steinhoff has acquired 80% of US mattress manufacturer Sherwood Bedding at an as yet undisclosed price. In total Steinhoff has invested north of $5 billion on these three acquisitions [including Poundland]. When will we see the return on this investment? Debt to equity has expanded to 39% and the interest bill has doubled to 123 million which has impacted operating cash flows. (A positive cash flow balance of 324 million in March 2016 has reduced to 13 million).Of course the group has raised cash through the sale of shares and available cash is 1.1 billion, up from a negative 49 million in this period last year. We believe Steinhoff owns some solid businesses, says Patrick Ntshalintshali, a portfolio manager at Perpetua Investment Managers. But there are questions about their capital allocation strategy. My sense is that Steinhoff is a strategy in transition and we need to give it time to see whether these acquisitions make sense. Ultimately acquisitions must be value-accretive, and they have not been for some years. Retail is about scale, he adds, and that is what the company is building.But there are still many unknowns in this business.What is clear is Steinhoff CEO Markus Jooste s commitment to the discount or value retail model, and it would appear that this model is holding its own in the current climate whether in South Africa, Germany or the UK. I d still back the big discount model in bricks and mortar retail, says Walker. You will struggle to get them to work online because the margin is so slim. That said, there could come a tipping point where the likes of Amazon are so big that even the value retailers cannot fight back.And that, adds Walker, is what makes the company difficult to value. Is this a business worth a 10x multiple or a 15x multiple? I m not sure yet. What I do know is that there is a lot of work to do between now and next year. 