JOHANNESBURG A new retirement survey provides no clear indication that millennials will be in a better position than their parents when they retire.South Africa is facing a major retirement crisis with an estimated 94% of pensioners unable to maintain their standard of living in retirement.The move from defined benefit retirement funds (where the employer bears the risk of worse than expected investment returns) to defined contribution funds (where the responsibility of saving enough for retirement is effectively transferred to the individual), a lower return environment and increases in average life expectancy may well put millennials (those between 25 and 35) at a relative disadvantage.A survey conducted by 10X Investments in partnership with BrandAtlas among 2 253 economically active South Africans aged 25 and older has highlighted both worrying and encouraging signs with regard to retirement savings.Millennials appear to be worse savers than their parents, with 35% of respondents saying they invest in various options to grow their wealth, compared to 55% of their parents. Thirty-six percent of millennials said they didn t save or invest at all, compared to 24% of the older generation. Twenty-nine percent of millennials said they didn t have a retirement plan. Twelve percent of mature respondents echoed this sentiment. Almost 60% of millennials said they planned to retire before 65 compared to 37% of their parents.When told that paying 2% more in total annual fees over an investment period of 40 years could reduce their final investment value by up to 40%, millennials and their parents were highly sceptical.Millennials were also slightly less aware of fees than their parents, with 42% saying they didn t know what they paid. Interestingly roughly half of all respondents said they paid less than 1% in fees to their financial service providers annually, which was clearly not the case. In 2015, the median total expense ratio (TER) of South African multi-asset funds was north of 1.6%. When told that the impact of paying 2% more in total annual fees over an investment period of 40 years could reduce the final investment value by up to 40%, millennials and their parents were highly sceptical of the statistic, with roughly 80% of both sets of respondents expressing doubt at the fact.And while the passive versus active debate has been raging full steam among investment professionals for several years, roughly 70% of millennials and their parents said they weren t familiar with actively managed funds or index tracking.Forty-eight percent of older respondents said they trusted the investment industry compared to 44% of millennials.Emma Heap, head of retail at 10X, said retirement was one of the main reasons people invested over time significant amounts of money were allocated towards this goal. Yet, just less than half of both age groups said they trusted the industry. So they are putting all of this money aside and they are putting it into the pockets of people that they simply don t trust. But a higher level of distrust could also work in the individual s favour.Steven Nathan, CEO of 10X, said investors with a higher level of distrust were more likely to ask questions and take ownership of their situation.Forty-six percent of millennials used the internet as a source of information about the financial investments they used compared to 37% of the baby boomers. Thirty-five percent of young adults consulted a financial advisor compared to 58% of their parents.Nathan said it was not clear whether younger investors would be in a better position 30 years from now. The research highlighted both encouraging as well as worrying signs with regard to savings trends and attitudes.What was unclear was how parents were doing 20 or 30 years ago when they were a similar age. &#8220;We know that most people don t willingly save on their own. Nathan said the defined-benefit setting was a very good environment for delivering positive retirement outcomes. There were flaws, but at least people were enrolled into the system and they got quite good outcomes in that system. At the moment people are not automatically enrolled into systems and they are not getting good outcomes because of these issues. 