South Africa s water crisis stems from drought conditions and inadequate infrastructure &#8211; but adding to the water supply problem is a collapse in the systems that measure, monitor and predict water resources.There is an infrastructure failure in general, Gordon Allen, director of GuruManzi, a water technology and solutions provider told a Moneyweb and Standard Bank business breakfast on the state of the Western Cape water infrastructure.Water delivery is undermined by a variety of transformational objectives from government, infrastructure failure and an inability to deliver, he said.SA s water resources are overstretched, with projections of a significant national water deficit by 2025, and major infrastructure programmes have been delayed.South Africa has over 1 000 water treatment plants and nearly a quarter are operating below specification. It has 824 bulk waste water treatment plants, treating 5.13 billion litres a day, but only 16% of these are discharged to specification, according to Allen.There has also been a rise of a multitude of contaminants and toxins and the poor suffer most from contamination, with healthcare and facilities compromised.According to Allen, the Western Cape s rainwater gauging stations are dysfunctional, so the ability to predict has been compromised severely&#8221;. Allen mentioned a number of infrastructure failures, from six closed lops on the Olifants River system and points along the Gauteng supply via Rand Water which allow sewage to flow into the river. Rand Water was lifting levels of chlorine to compensate for rising levels of bacteria, he said. We believe the correct response into the future, whether it be new or existing property development, is to consider water as a business risk. Allen said that an integrated water and environmental management plan provided a strategic response to identified risks. This should take into account ensuring uninterrupted supply of water which should be fit for purpose.Allen said there is infrastructure failure which is not going to be fixed fast, and the problem is coming downstream and you have to deal with it , but that it is possible to recover clean water from almost any source.Our Future Cities CEO Rashiq Fataar said we need to rethink the way forward, not only in terms of how we get more water in a dam. In reframing how a city works, we find a solution, and the way we respond will have lasting impacts over the next few decades.Fataar said that 60% of the built environment to be constructed for people in urban areas up until 2050 still has to be built.In looking at future trends, there may be opportunities for better solutions. For example, the shift to the digital economy could enable people to work from anywhere, prompting the questions of whether we still need commercial buildings, and how many buildings will have one use. Another trend is urbanisation, which places additional pressures on water infrastructure and environmental resources.Fataar cited Hurricane Sandy, in the US, where instead of simply building a bigger and stronger sea wall, a multi-billion dollar infrastructure project was launched. It included developing social infrastructure and public spaces and finding new ways to store and redirect water.He also cited Singapore, which has no natural water supply and gets 55% to 60% of supply from Malaysia. Today it is recognised globally as a city that transformed water supply, centralised water management and focused on sewerage and waste water. In the Western Cape, his company is looking at the next few decades, not only in terms of transforming water supply, but also the way the city works to get more water and more food. Ours is linear water supply, where we are using water and not recovering or recycling. How to store locally, recycling and recovering water can solve a lot of issues. Brought to you by Standard Bank.