Publicly trashing your competitors to make your own business look good is not a good long-term strategy. Consider the marketing and promotion strategies of some newer financial product providers who seem to use competitor bashing as their primary marketing strategy. While their intent might be noble (I m not convinced) the result might be more harmful to them than their competitors.Hypocrisy always stinksConsider the tactics of a fund manager when it tries to claim the high ground over more established competitors by criticising them for their investment selections on moral or ethical grounds. This is always interesting to me, if you have a company that promotes index investing, how can you claim any moral superiority when your own products will invest in any businesses index? Remember that some companies in the index are massive polluters, sellers of alcohol and tobacco and possibly micro-lenders and gambling businesses? Simply abdicating your responsibility by saying that you don t create the index, is not good enough, it stinks of hypocrisy.Similarly, if you constantly criticise your competitors because you believe they overcharge, what happens when you are no longer the cheapest provider on the block? The criticism is even more invalid if you actively promote one part of your business (e.g. the index-tracking part) and remain curiously quiet about another part which has much higher fees. What about companies who brag about their low annual management fees but remain silent about their total investment charges (TIC)? Could it be that their transaction costs are higher than anyone else s?When I see CEOs bashing their industry peers on the basis of fees, I always wonder what cars these saintly people drive, where they live and how much they earn. Can one really criticise others about fees when you earn R3 million or R7 million in a country where millions of people can t get a job? If you are cruising around Cape Town (most asset managers live in Cape Town) in your multi-million rand sports car on the way to an interview about other companies fees, what credibility do you have?Change things in the right wayAs someone who has harped on about fees on Moneyweb since 2009, I am always happy when more people enter the debate. Collective pressure (and new regulations) has reduced product fees over the last few years. However, pressure needs to be exerted in a constructive and objective way, companies who promote themselves by bashing others will eventually lose support. These are the questions I ask myself before dealing with competitor-bashers:I used to publicly support some of these newer product providers when they started because their fees were great and their products were good. When they started to trash the competition, they lost my support because they did not stack up when I considered the questions above.Investors are not stupidIf we really want to reduce fees, we all need to fight for increased transparency. It should be easy for investors to see all the fees they are charged and to compare them on a like-for-like basis with other product fees. I have faith that investors will rapidly direct their money to companies that charge fairly for their services after all, investors are not stupid. There is no merit in simply bashing your competitors it probably means your own house is not in order and raises red flags with objective observers.