When Jack Bogle founded Vanguard in 1974 he did an extraordinary thing. He formed the firm as a mutual company, with no outside owners.The way Vanguard is structured is that the company is owned by its funds. The funds, in turn, are owned by investors. Essentially, this means that Vanguard is client-owned .Bogle&#8217;s vision in doing this was that there shouldn&#8217;t be a conflict between what would be best for the company and what would be best for its clients. Since the clients own the company, those interests would always be aligned.While Vanguard doesn&#8217;t pay out dividends to its clients, its profits are indirectly returned to them in the form of lower costs. That, Vanguard claims, is how it can charge an average of 0.12% on its entire range of 370 funds, which hold assets of over $4 trillion. More than 40 years later, this structure remains unique. Nobody else has copied it.Perhaps this is remarkable, and perhaps it isn&#8217;t. Asset management can be an extremely lucrative business, and if there are profits to be made it&#8217;s fair to ask why owners and shareholders shouldn&#8217;t make them. Many fund managers are listed companies, for which there is no lack of investor appetite.The largest local example is Coronation Fund Managers , which has been a very popular stock on the JSE. It pays out 100% of its earnings as dividends, meaning that any profit it makes gets distributed directly to its shareholders.Could it forego those profits and rather charge lower fees? Yes, it could. Would that make it a better company? That&#8217;s a more difficult question, but it is one worth asking.Speaking at the recent CFA Institute Annual Conference in Philadelphia, Bogle himself made the argument as follows: Adam Smith taught us that the producer&#8217;s sole duty is to serve the consumer, he said. That is the way business works. Managing other people&#8217;s money is no exception. But Adam Smith also said that: It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. The point is that while the most successful baker will be the one that serves their customers best, bakes the tastiest bread, and gives them the best value for money, they wouldn&#8217;t be in business unless they got some benefit out of it. Ultimately they don&#8217;t bake bread to feed people. They do it because it&#8217;s profitable.Should asset management be any different? Because apart from Vanguard&#8217;s approach, it isn&#8217;t.Simplistically, it&#8217;s easy to argue that there&#8217;s no reason why asset management should be special. Yes, investors would be better served if fund managers lowered fees instead of earning profits, but then the baker would also be better serving customers if bread was cheaper and they made no profit off it.By making a profit, however, the baker is able to buy better equipment, and hire more staff. This could increase how much bread they make and by employing economies of scale the bread could become cheaper, which ultimately benefits the customer.If baking bread is good business, that would also attract other bakers who might have more skill and better service. That creates competition and that too would drive down prices. Ultimately, the customer benefits.So is asset management any different? There is an argument to be made that it is.First of all, fund managers are not making a product. They are looking after people&#8217;s money. And whatever they take in the form of profits means lower returns for their clients.That is a natural conflict. Every asset manager&#8217;s job is to maximise the returns for investors, but any profit they take is directly detracting from that return.Secondly, asset management has enormous scalability. Once a firm has reached a certain size, it begins to cost exponentially less to manage each additional rand in its funds. Put simply, it doesn&#8217;t cost that much more to manage a fund of R50 billion than it does to manage a fund of R10 billion.In other words, once a fund manager reaches scale, it becomes a massively profitable enterprise if it keeps its fees at the same level. There&#8217;s not a great deal it can do with that profit either. It can&#8217;t, like the baker, keep on buying better equipment and increasing production, leading to better customer experience.The only certain way those profits in asset management can benefit clients is if they are used directly to lower fees. Yet how often does that happen?This is by no means an original debate. For decades there have been arguments about whether the relationship between asset managers and clients isn&#8217;t asymmetrical. One might even ask why Bogle would have ever felt the need to structure Vanguard the way he did if that wasn&#8217;t the case.As long as market returns were good, however, it didn&#8217;t seem to matter that much. While investors are seeing strong performance regardless of what they are paying, then why would they be concerned?But it is going to start mattering a lot more in the next few years as the low-return environment persists. And it is certain that asset managers are going to come under a lot more pressure to explain themselves.More investors are likely to start asking: if Vanguard does things this way, why don&#8217;t you?