Earlier this week Allan Gray made it known that it would be voting against Naspers&#8217; pay policy at this week&#8217;s AGM. The problem it highlighted was that they did not believe that executives were being given the correct incentives. Most of the executive remuneration is based on Naspers including Tencent and very little is based on the performance of the rump i.e. Naspers excluding Tencent, explained Allan Gray investment analyst Pieter Koornhof. As a result you have a situation where the rump which executives have control over performs poorly, but executives continue to receive large payouts because Tencent which executives don t control is performing well. This was not the first time that questions have been asked about Naspers&#8217; corporate governance, but it was a very rare public rebuke from a large investor. Allan Gray&#8217;s recent experiences with Net1 UEPS and Group Five seem to have sharpened its teeth.The firm&#8217;s decision to make it known beforehand how it would be voting also raised some interesting questions about the role that asset managers can play when it comes to management accountability, and how they should play it.Constructive engagementSpeaking at the MSCI Global Investment and Risk Management Conference in Cape Town on Wednesday, senior advisor for Africa at the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Adrian Bertrand, said that it is significant that large investors are starting to be more outspoken on environmental, social and governance (ESG) questions. It&#8217;s very helpful if you know how Allan Gray is going to vote on an issue, Bertrand says. If investors of reference state how they are going to vote and why, smaller asset managers can also benefit from some of that information. At the same time, however, he said that asset managers need to ensure that their engagements with management are constructive. Preferably that is behind closed doors at first, but becoming public as and when that&#8217;s needed, said Bertrand.Speaking at the same event, the governance and engagement manager at the Old Mutual Investment Group, Rob Lewenson, would not be drawn on how the investment group would be voting at the Naspers AGM. He did however make it clear that they intended to engage with Naspers on executive remuneration.He made the point that the vote on the company&#8217;s policy would be non-binding anyway. It may expose shareholder displeasure, but it wouldn&#8217;t on its own change anything or even offer an alternative.Taking the issue further therefore requires direct engagement with the company about how its executive pay should be structured so that it is more aligned to shareholder interests, and rewards executives for the right things.Guidance and supportThe two approaches adopted by Allan Gray and Old Mutual highlight the complexities that asset managers have to navigate on these issues. When is it worthwhile going public, and when are they likely to achieve more in private?The biggest reason for not making a public statement would be that it may compromise the relationship between the asset manager and the company&#8217;s board. However Allan Gray is in a particular position of strength as the country&#8217;s largest asset manager. Even Naspers is unlikely to shun them. The potential capital they manage is too significant.By challenging Naspers&#8217; remuneration policy, Allan Gray is also showing that it is willing to question any company that it believes is not acting in the best interests of its clients. If the largest company on the JSE doesn&#8217;t get a pass, then none will.Allan Gray has also performed a public service by highlighting the issue. If it only engaged with Naspers in private, it would not be adding anything to enhancing the public debate on executive remuneration and keeping the matter in the spotlight.As Lewenson points out, however, public statements on their own are not likely to achieve much. One must assume that Allan Gray has also engaged with Naspers in private, and together with the additional pressure brought by other shareholders such as Old Mutual, this is where the actual change is likely to happen. These engagements with the board are where asset managers can detail their concerns and propose more suitable alternatives.In both cases however, boards and management teams are only really likely to act when it&#8217;s not just one or two asset managers who have something to say. It&#8217;s when it becomes a regular message from a number of them that it really has an impact.And this is perhaps the most significant thing about Allan Gray&#8217;s decision to go public. It provides both guidance and support to other asset managers. Anyone who questions Naspers&#8217; remuneration policy now knows that they are definitely not alone.