It s 2017 and we are still discussing how to advance the participation of women in the property industry. More women are graduating from South African universities than men, a global trend that s been mirrored locally. Worldwide, women are catching up to men in levels of education and workforce participation. Why then do women remain hard to find in the corporate boardrooms of property companies where key business decisions are made? Companies which can draw on a diverse mix of talent including gender deliver enhanced profits, investor returns and productivity. A recent study found that having more women in a company translated to better business results. The Peterson Institute for International Economics and EY analysed more than 21 000 global, publicly traded companies, in 91 countries from various industries and sectors. The analysis showed that having at least 30% of women in leadership positions, or the C-suite, adds 6% to net profit margin. Diversity, as it turns out, isn t just a buzzword.Clearly, we must work together as an industry to accelerate the change needed to increase the number of women in leadership roles, as well as the pipeline of future women leaders in property. Unfortunately, there is little published research locally on the number of women coming into the sector, and those who are at the helm of decision making in property companies. Hopefully that will change.Some women making strides in the industry include, Ipeleng Mkhari, Founder and CEO of Motseng Investments, Amelia Beattie, CEO of Liberty 2 Degrees, and Nosiphiwo Balfour, who has recently been appointed as CEO of Texton Property Fund. Interestingly, the past two presidents of Sapoa, the industry s leading association representing commercial property owners, have both been women. However, they are rare examples, and it s really from a decision-making and ownership perspective that the sector is lagging. The boardrooms of property development companies and property funds are still populated primarily by middle-aged white men. Business deals are still closed between members of the boys club on the golf course. It appears that there is a gap in the female leadership pipeline. We see women come in strongly at entry to mid-level and administrative positions, but then drop off significantly higher up the ladder.Networking mattersFirst, women need to master networking and how to actively pursue their networks. According to the Leadership Research Institute, the top 20% of performers at companies excel at developing networks. Beyond helping them to find the right job, networks connect them to resources inside and outside their firm, help them to master best practices, solve problems, connect to people of more influence to get more done, and acquire better pay increases. Much of the success of networking is about attitude. Those who network well find that it can lead to success, while those who don t may find this an inhibitor when it comes to reaching long-term career goals.Networking does not have to be daunting. You can choose to meet people for one-on-one meaningful conversations, having a regular telephonic conversation with a mentor, sponsor or peer, attend industry events, or connect online via email, social media or professional chat groups. Simply put, all the work you do with people at every level of leadership is an opportunity to grow your network.It s important to build a diverse network that embraces gender and race. That will help to open you up to a broader, more diverse range of people and how they think and operate. Networking with people who are different from you, brings new ways of viewing the market into your world, this can only benefit your professional growth. It s about finding the confidence to develop your network and connecting with others to build your reputation at the same time. Women must never be afraid to show their value, their abilities, skills, talents, experiences and how those set them apart. Finding a career sponsorIn her book Forget a Mentor, Find a Sponsor, Sylvia Ann Hewlett writes that corporate sponsors may advise or steer you, but their chief role is to develop you as a leader. This is because furthering your career helps further their career, organisation or vision. Where a mentor might help you envision your next position, a sponsor will advocate for your promotion and lever open the door, she says. Sponsorship doesn t rig the game ; on the contrary, it ensures you get what you deserve. Sponsorship must be earned continually, but the right sponsor can change your career. Your boss can be a valuable connection to potential sponsors, but it s worth seeking out someone with real power to change your career. Hewlett says would-be sponsors in large organisations are ideally two levels above you with line of sight to your role; in smaller companies, they are either the founder or CEO, or are part of their inner circle.Industry bodies Professional organisations play an important education and development role in most industries. The Women&#8217;s Property Network, established in 2000 to create a forum for women in which we can exchange information, develop business contacts and enhance professional success, is another channel through which women in the sector can connect and learn. There are chapters in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town. The organisation also celebrates and recognises the work which women are doing in the industry through the Annual Women in Property Awards.Passion for the industry goes without saying. If you want to make it to the top, your love for what you do will help you overcome self-doubt and ensure that you don t find yourself focusing only on the barriers. It s important to define your career goals, be intrinsically aware of your skills and strengths and just go for it.Jackline Okeyo is head of business development and operations at Nthwese Developments.