Past performance is not necessarily an indication of future success, or so the disclaimer warns.And yet, it arguably remains by far the most important factor many investors consider when they choose a fund manager.Research conducted by Fundhouse shows that of those South African General Equity Funds that managed to outperform over a ten-year period, only one in five (21%) were able to do so over the following five-year period. Twenty-four percent outperformed during the following ten years. The main reason for that (when you go and dig behind it) is change that the manager or the business or the circumstance that led to this ten-year of outperformance is no longer there. Stats lie. Don t use past performance alone to select funds, Ian Jones, CEO and head of investments at Fundhouse, told an audience of financial advisors at a Discovery Invest summit.The likelihood that a particular fund or asset management firm would remain the same over time was very low. Many large firms in South Africa have experienced material changes in their investment process, people or business over the past five to ten years, Jones said. People leave firms. Firms change. Luck could also play a significant role in performance.Since the end of the global financial crisis in 2009, South Africa experienced a raging bull market for around six years and a number of managers particularly boutiques came to market, Jones said.But research showed that some of these managers who rode the momentum wave and whose performance looked fantastic as a result of it, were lucky and lacked skill. During the difficult 2016 period, these managers really struggled.Career risk could also muddy the waters. A deep value manager hanging by a thread after three years of material underperformance may decide that his career and business was at risk and that he needed to switch gears and buy shares that had performed a lot better. But if the market turned, this would lead to career whiplash, Jones said.Limited information added to investors woes. Monthly fact sheets did not really convey much information other than performance, while investment-marketing presentations were aimed at selling the fund, he added.Pension funds assisted by an actuarial or asset consulting firm had access to full due diligence investigations and a broad range of information that helped them to make a decision. We are living in a marketing-based industry. People sell in this industry and for you to sit and select a fund manager you will be influenced by marketing. Jones said the South African fund universe comprised of around 1 650 funds and while there wasn t a need for as many funds, there were various ways of filtering the universe to create an appropriate portfolio. Our view is that it all starts with your investment process guidelines. So what is your DNA around investing? This would allow the advisor or firm to narrow down choices. Various guidelines were available in this regard, he added.Specific investment styles, mancos or funds with total investment charges above a certain maximum could be eliminated to create a shortlist, which can then be used as a starting point to compile an appropriate portfolio.When considering a manager s investment style, advisors ideally had to blend funds that provided different sources of return. Independent fund research and a look at the market cycle could also be considerations, Jones said.While there were lots of statistical ways to study how different funds performed over time, it was a good idea to blend managers who were expected to outperform in different ways over the time horizon in order to smooth the investment return, he added.