Whenever there is widespread enthusiasm about a particular investment or style of investing, that is often a signal for caution. In the words of Warren Buffett, be fearful when others are greedy .So when ETFGI announced this week that inflows into global exchange-traded products (ETPs) in the first seven months of 2017 had already surpassed the record inflows seen last year , it&#8217;s worth taking pause. To the end of July, ETPs around the world received net inflows of $391.21 billion, or $1.9 billion per day.Jeff Saut, the chief investment strategist at US wealth manager Raymond James, believes that investors need to question whether there isn&#8217;t herd mentality at play here. When everyone is investing one way you know it&#8217;s the wrong thing to do, he says. Everyone is going passive now, and they shouldn&#8217;t. He argues that the effect of low interest rates on equity markets has favoured passive strategies over the last five to ten years. However, the market now looks very different to how it looked after the global financial crisis. When stocks are undervalued and the index is going straight up, you want to own cheap passive, says Saut. But when stocks are neutrally valued or overvalued you want an active manager that can say: investors have bought up all the low volatility, defensive names to the highest valuations in history and I&#8217;m not playing that game. Saut doesn&#8217;t argue that investors shouldn&#8217;t hold any passive at all, but that they should be considering whether it will be the best approach going forward.Strategist at etfSA Nerina Visser, however, questions whether the growth in passive strategies isn&#8217;t being overstated. Despite the fact that we&#8217;ve seen high net inflows into ETFs and outflows from active funds for the best part of ten years now, the overall passive industry is still less than 15% of the total, she says. So there is still a massive amount of money in actively-managed funds. She also points out that even if this money was not going into index trackers, it would still need to be invested somehow, and the aggregate of investing in a range of active funds would be the same. Passive funds just present a different vehicle. If you think of the high jump when everyone started doing the Fosbury Flop, would that be considered herd mentality? Visser asks. They were all still doing the high jump. They just found another way of doing it. For Karl Leinberger, chief investment officer at Coronation, one does however need to consider what kinds of funds passive investors are using. Are they following Jack Bogle&#8217;s original intention of owning low-cost, broad market exposure for the long term, or are they chasing performance? There is always an active decision in investing, Leinberger points out. A lot of money is not just moving into broad market proxies. It&#8217;s going into smaller niches that have been performing, such as the Nasdaq 100. Money going into emerging market ETFs is also worrying because 18 months ago people wouldn t have invested in emerging markets, no matter what the valuations were, he adds. Now money is pouring in, and that&#8217;s a very active decision. The amount of money being invested into corporate bond funds is also a concern, and one that Visser shares. I do feel that in a yield-hungry world investors are not necessarily chasing performance but certainly chasing yield, she notes. The problem is that there is very limited secondary market liquidity. Where passive money is pushing valuations higher without much, or any, concern for underlying fundamentals, there is an argument for looking more seriously at active strategies. But as Leinberger says, you still need to be circumspect about which managers you choose. All active managers in aggregate can&#8217;t always outperform, he says. You must have some above-average and some below-average managers to get you back to the average. What is important, therefore, is to distinguish between good active managers and active managers in general. I don&#8217;t really want to defend all active managers, because I think the active management industry is not always one that I&#8217;m all that proud of, Leinberger says. Far too many mediocre funds charge fees that are far too high, the industry is full of conflicts of interest and short termism. I don&#8217;t want to defend that. But I will stand up and defend good active managers. A difficulty for investors is of course identifying who those are. This has been one of the reasons passive strategies have become so popular investors avoid the risk of picking an active manager that is going to put their money at risk.Active managers have also drawn deserved criticism by continually making claims like &#8216;this is the time for stock picking&#8217; or &#8216;this is the kind of market in which active managers will outperform&#8217;. If they keep repeating this in every environment and keep on failing to live up to it, then it starts to ring rather hollow.However, markets will always go through different cycles and, at some point, they will probably be right. That suggests that there is a place for both (good) active and passive strategies in any portfolio. One thing I&#8217;m sure of is that this wall of money moving into the world&#8217;s big companies just because they are big, not because they are cheap, must be building the opportunity set for good active people, says Leinberger. Whether their day is this year or we have to wait another couple of years, I don&#8217;t know, but these things are cyclical. Whenever people write off active managers they bounce back. 