Many living annuity policyholders face a substantial risk of running out of money in retirement.This comes amid a surge in longevity, floundering returns and an increase in average drawdown rates.Statistics released by the Association for Savings and Investment South Africa (Asisa), show that living annuity policyholders withdrew on average 6.62% of their capital as income in 2016, slightly more than a year earlier.Taryn Hirsch, senior policy advisor at Asisa, says the small increase came as a pleasant surprise given the steep rise in the cost of living. While we would have preferred to see the drawdown rate continue the small yet steady downward trend of the past five years, we have to accept that many pensioners are finding it increasingly difficult to maintain their standard of living without adjusting their drawdown rates upward, Hirsch says.The table below shows the average living annuity drawdown rates over time:2011201220132014201520166.99%6.77%6.63%6.59%6.44%6.62%Source: AsisaA traditional living annuity does not guarantee a regular income. Legislation allows retirees to draw between 2.5% and 17.5% per annum, but the retiree bears the investment risk, (i.e. that investment returns won t be enough to compensate for drawdowns) and the longevity risk (that the money will dry up before the pensioner passes away).The vast majority of South Africans choose living annuities at retirement, presumably because it allows them a higher initial income in retirement if they haven t saved enough, because they can leave the remaining money to beneficiaries at death and because financial advisors often recommend these products due to on-going commissions.While the average suggests that most retirees in living annuities are drawing too much, the average drawdown rate doesn t tell the full story.Peter Hewett, managing director of Hewett Wealth, says the statistics are somewhat skewed by a wealthier component of the population who are only drawing 2.5%. People with smaller retirement pots probably have a far higher drawdown rate than the average.Another problem is that the average includes pensioners of all ages, adds Johann Swanepoel, product actuary at Just. One would expect people to increase their drawdown rates over their lifetime as they try to keep pace with inflation.The average also takes new retirees into account. There is usually an increase in the number of new business written in living annuities over time. People that retired ten years ago may on average be drawing a completely different percentage, Swanepoel adds.Risks Generically speaking however, people are drawing too much and need to try to reduce their drawdown rates, Hewett says. You are going to find more and more people running out of money because of longevity people are living a lot longer. In a blog post published last year, Just argued that a living annuity accident was waiting to happen .Investment returns are expected to be muted going forward. In the aftermath of the global financial crisis stellar investment returns have allowed many retirees to maintain high drawdown rates that would otherwise have been unsustainable. In 2016, the JSE All Share Index returned 2.6% while inflation was 6.6%.Hewett says there has been quite a significant shift in the market and South Africans should not expect the returns they have become accustomed to over the last ten years. Ten years ago, investors comfortably expected returns of 12% to 15% per annum. I think we are going to see generically a lower return environment and people aren t adjusting their lifestyles to accommodate that, he says.Swanepoel says while the average drawdown rate doesn t convey the true story, the real retirement problem is much more significant than relatively high drawdown rates. People draw more than that [the average] and where they don t have a lifetime income to protect them against outliving their assets they are forced to under consume and I think that is bad for a country that is known to have under provided for retirement. There are solutions which allow pensioners to draw more with less risk. Combining a lifetime income (with a guaranteed component) with a living annuity offer a balance between leaving money behind when pensioners die early and feeling secure when they live long, he says.