Absa has launched an overhauled offering to fill the big gap between its mass middle market gold -type accounts and its private banking accounts. Premium Banking, at R159 per month, offers a single card for debit, credit and savings facilities, a free stockbroking account and faux private banking via a pool of dedicated bankers . The product launch has seen an aggressive television campaign over the past few weeks, with teasers until last week and product details becoming available over the weekend.This product replaces the Platinum Value Bundle, which targets those who earn a minimum of R25 000 per month, effectively the exact same segment which FNB s Premier account is focused on.Premium Banking uses a single card to provide a debit card, credit card and savings account. What is somewhat confusing, however, is that customers who do not want a credit card will be issued a debit card. Only customers who want a credit card will get the credit card version (of the single account). This differs from FNB s single card product, called Fusion, which it launched in June. It was the first among the big four full-service retail banks to launch a single card offering, until then, only Investec had offered this.All the banks are doubling down on this (upper-end of the middle market) segment of the market ahead of Discovery s launch of its banking proposition, likely early in 2018. One would expect Discovery to leverage its strong (credit) card business as the base and launch other banking services on top of that. If Standard Bank and Nedbank also shift into this single card space, six of the seven retail banks in the country will be competing head-to-head for the same customers.The shift away from the Platinum name by Absa mimics FNB s move in 2015 to change its offering to Premier . At the time, executives had described the platinum segment as crowded . Standard Bank s product aimed at this segment is called Prestige (although it still has a platinum credit card) while Nedbank has the Savvy Bundle (and also has a platinum credit card).At first glance, Absa s offering looks to be more competitive than FNB s: R159 per month versus R199. However, the monthly fee for Absa Rewards is R23, while FNB s eBucks programme is included in its bundled pricing option (at R199). Also, airport lounge access (via DragonPass) on Absa Premium Banking requires an additional fee of R59 per month.On a debit card only (in other words, without a credit card), this entitles the customers to five free visits per annum. With the Premium Banking credit card (single card), customers get four free domestic and two free international visits per month at Bidvest lounges, if qualifying criteria are met. Simply, cardholders need to have spent (swiped) more than R5 000 on the credit card in the month of the visit (or R15 000 over three consecutive months before and during the month of the visit). A detailed breakdown of costs for lounge access and qualifying criteria is available here.FNB s access is bundled into the eBucks proposition (with six visits included on Level Two, rising to 12 on Level Five). This means that a more accurate comparison would see Absa Premium Banking as much as 21% more expensive. Because airport lounge access and rewards membership is charged separately, the account is obviously cheaper for customers who don t require/use these additional services.Importantly, with Absa Premium Banking, the credit card account is the primary account, which means that any contactless (so-called tap-and-go ) transaction will automatically be linked to one s credit card facility.While the lower end of Absa s customer base is under pressure (it lost nearly 300 000 transactional customers between June 2017 and June 2016), the bank says its target segments are growing. The bank said Private Bank customers (those earning R750 000 or more per year) were up 4%, while its affluent segment (previously Platinum Value Bundle, now Premium Banking) was up 12%.* Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at hilton@moneyweb.co.za.