According to Deutsche Bank, last Tuesday brought to an end an extraordinary run for the S&amp;P 500. For 109 days from 11 October 2016 to 21 March 2017 the index did not fall by more than 1% on any single day. That is a relatively long period of market stability, notes Cai Rees, director at SEI Investments. Deutsche Bank research cannot find a similar period on their records of longer than 184 days, which occurred in 1963. So while equity markets have trended up to new highs, the nature of this climb has been relatively steady. Many market watchers have noted how market volatility on Wall Street, as measured by the VIX Index, has been at ten-year lows in the first quarter of this year. As the chart below shows, the current levels were last seen in 2007.Source: CBOEAt the same time, the Dow Jones and S&amp;P 500 are trading at or near all time highs. This, says Rees, is understandable. The VIX Index is often informally called the fear index, meaning that when the VIX is high it signals that markets are more fearful, he explains. Likewise, when it is low it signals that markets are more confident. From that perspective, a low VIX is somewhat associated with high stock market prices. And so from that perspective it makes some sense. What is significant for investors, however, is what this period of low volatility might mean. Is it a signal for where the market might go next? In the same way that there is a business cycle, to some extent there appears to be a related volatility cycle, says John Stopford of Investec Asset Management. There are periods in a typical business cycle when volatility is below its long-term average, and periods when it tends to be somewhat higher. He says that there is a broad pattern to this. In a recession, the huge uncertainty about the future is usually reflected in high levels of realised and market-implied volatility, which then tends to begin to fall during a recovery period as the outlook becomes more certain, Stopford explains. It then tends to fall to quite low levels for a period of time during economic expansion. This is where the market is now. If you look at the dynamics of the current cycle, there are a number of things which have helped to underpin a period of low volatility, says Stopford. For example, if you look at the volatility of GDP growth in developed economies, the low volatility of realised inflation, and the low volatility of interest rates you see that realised economic and policy volatility is pretty low. This is not just a US phenomenon, but is visible across most major economies. What investors should be looking out for is the next step in the cycle, which is when volatility returns. Typically this happens through a change in dynamics, such as economies running out of spare capacity and inflation picking up, or through some change in policy. Either of these is possible in the not too distant future. We have very low unemployment in the US and you would assume that if growth remains buoyant wages will go up and so inflation will begin to rise, says Stopford. More generally, we seem to be getting to a point where central bankers are less inclined to be more accommodative indefinitely. The Fed in the US has begun to tighten monetary policy, in Europe they are talking about when quantitative easing might come to an end, and even in Japan there are discussions around whether they should move away from targeting zero interest rates. Related to that is the possibility of a policy error from President Trump. While he has promised a number of things that excite the market, such as lower taxes and deregulation, he has also talked about things that could hurt growth, such as putting up trade barriers.Any or all of these factors could contribute to a change in the business cycle that will also feed into the markets. Big rises in volatility tend to come with economies slipping into recession, says Stopford. That doesn&#8217;t look likely in the near term, but this expansion has been going on for quite some time. It&#8217;s certainly hard to see that volatility can go much lower. It could stay low for a bit longer, but ultimately in the next 12 to 24 to 36 months we are going to move into a period of somewhat higher volatility and if we move into recession a period of significantly higher volatility. 