The stage had been set for President Zuma to finally release the guillotine that hung over the head of his embattled Finance Minister (and the nation as a whole) Wednesday evening, but this all came to nought following the conclusion of the cabinet meeting at the Union Buildings. One day we may look upon the passing of Ahmed Kathrada as a moment of divine provenance. The deterioration of the health of the Struggle stalwart was one variable that President Zuma could not have factored in when he instructed Pravin Gordhan to return home on Monday afternoon. Barely a few hours later, the Kathrada Foundation alerted the public to the fact that the health of the great man had deteriorated precipitously following surgery. This was followed by the news that in the early hours of Tuesday morning, Uncle Kathy as he is affectionately known, had passed on. The funeral that was held today was as much a celebration of his life and the values he stood for, as it was a moment of introspection for many in the liberation movement. Confronted with the legacy of prisoner #46864, his life and example reminded many of how far wide of the mark the party had gone of the standards set by Kathrada and those of his generation. President Zuma should be grateful he did not attend. He would have been publicly humiliated on a scale that even he with the thickest of skins would have battled to deal with. Kathrada s funeral emboldened Zuma s opponents within the ruling party. It allowed them to regroup and celebrate the efforts of those that sought to do the things Kathrada would have done were he holding the reins of power. The Zuma administration, by contrast, has attempted to break every tenet and principle the Rivonia triallists sought to instil in the movement. And then there was the letter. Former President Motlanthe read it out in full at the funeral and received a standing ovation when he completed the last sentence that appealed to President Zuma to yield to the will of the people and do the right thing resign. So, between a sojourn at the North Gauteng High Court to listen to the arguments for the relief the Finance Minister seeks against the very Zuma acolytes that stand accused of tearing Kathrada s beloved ANC apart, we waited to see if the President would pull the trigger and reshuffle the cabinet at a meeting at the Union Buildings. But he couldn t do it. It appears the opposition in cabinet and the ANC Top 6 has become too great to just yield to the President s prerogative. There is now horse-trading of the highest order under way to reconfigure the cabinet. This may still see Gordhan losing his job, but the President will not get his way without making major concessions to the opposing faction. So for now, this bomb remains undetonated.