A frail-looking Sue Bennett, accused no. 2 in the criminal trial relating to the collapse of JSE-listed Tigon more than a decade ago, arrived at the High Court in Johannesburg at 9:30am on Wednesday and thereby prevented being arrested at 10:05am.Judge Brian Spilg last week ordered that she be arrested at 10:05, unless she presented herself at 10:00. This followed after Bennett, who has been out on bail since her arrest in 2003, failed to appear in court on January 30 and several occasions thereafter, despite express warnings by Spilg to do so.Bennett, who pleads ill health, was accompanied by her daughter who, according to Porritt, flew in from Hong Kong this morning, she was so concerned about her mother. She had to leave behind her twin babies and her husband had to take leave to look after them. Adv. Annelene van den Heever, who represents Bennett pro bono for her health issue, submitted an affidavit from Dr. Maria Dobreva, a Petermartizburg psychiatrist who has assessed and is treating Bennett.Spilg questioned Van den Heever about the reason for Bennett s earlier absence from court and said the affidavit from Dobreva does not give a satisfactory explanation. He said it expresses an opinion, but fails to disclose the facts upon which the opinion is based.Van den Heever pointed to Dobreva s statement that Bennett is on medication and is definitely not in a fit state, either psychologically or emotionally, to attend court or to participate in these court proceedings&#8221;.If Dobreva considered Bennett unfit to travel, she should have stated it, but she didn t, Spilg said. He questioned the fact that she flew from her home in Knysna to Pietermaritzburg to see Dobreva, but was allegedly too sick to travel to Johannesburg to appear in court.Adv. Etienne Coetzee SC for the state, said Spilg should first make a ruling regarding Bennett s repeated failure to attend the court hearing earlier. He said if Spilg had to rule immediately, he could only find that Bennett was in contempt of court and sentence her accordingly. Alternatively, he could call witnesses to give oral evidence and be cross examined. The state would like to hear Dobreva as well as a Dr. Henning who treated Bennett earlier in Knysna, he said.Coetzee said the state was concerned that proceedings had been delayed since January and requested that the trial proceeds even if Bennett was temporarily absent and had been supplied with a transcript and video recording of proceedings.He said Van den Heever earlier agreed that Bennett be examined by a psychologist on behalf of the state. This Van den Heever denied and when Coetzee read from the transcript that reflected such agreement, she said it was made in a specific context.Van den Heever asked for a postponement until she could take meaningful instructions from Bennett. That, she said, was not immediately possible, since Bennett was clearly ill and cannot concentrate on simple questions&#8221;.Spilg said he was inclined to refer Bennett for observation by an independent psychologist and cardiologist to assess her state of health and ability to stand trial. He said he was very concerned about Bennett s mental state. He saw before him a very functional person until December. After the December break, she was placed on heavy medication, but it is unclear how appropriate the medication is and for how long she would need to take it.Van den Heever denied that Bennett suffered from a mental defect or mental condition , as referred to in the Criminal Procedures Act, and therefore needs to be sent for observation. She said Bennett was affected by medication, which she maintained was something completely different.When Spilg again addressed the inadequacy of Dobreva s affidavit, Van den Heever said she could not invade the privacy of the relationship between Bennett and her doctor without Bennett s instructions and Bennett was unable to give meaningful instructions.Spilg asked where privacy comes in if the doctor s assessment was aimed at producing evidence before court.Van den Heever said: I cannot believe what we are dealing with. She (Bennett) should be lying in a bed and doing something else and here we are. She said Bennett was clearly ill. Where I come from, ill is ill. This is not a person pretending to be ill, she said. She asked the court to have compassion and said Bennett was drugged, drowsy and speaking with a slur.She said it would be unconstitutional for the trial to continue in Bennett s absence.Porritt addressed the court on Bennett s situation, and disclosed that she passed out when she got up the previous night, fell and bumped her head.Porritt said it was important for Bennett s recovery that the medication and rest be administered simultaneously. She would return to Knysna and her other daughter would come from Spain to look after her there. On March 27 she will have a follow-up appointment with Dobreva.Spilg adjourned the trial until Thursday for the legal teams to prepare argument about whether Bennett s diagnosis of Major Depression qualifies as a mental illness or condition that warrants independent observation and assessment and whether the trial should proceed in her absence.After Spilg left the courtroom Bennett&#8217;s daughter quietly held her crying mother.Porritt and Bennett s bail was extended until Thursday.