Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Brainard foldsThe dollar strengthened overnight as the hitherto dovish Lael Brainard became the latest Federal Reserve official to suggest conditions may &#8220;soon&#8221; be propitious for raising rates. Options traders scrambling to price in a March hike exchanged a record volume of Fed futures contracts yesterday, while those expectations are also having impacts farther afield. As of 4am Eastern Time, the Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index was gaining for a fifth day, up against every G-10 currency this week.Two percentEuro-area inflation, out at 5am Eastern Time, accelerated to its fastest pace since January 2013. Analysts had expected it to hit the two-percent mark, but doing so may still provide ammunition to those calling for an exit from the European Central Bank s monetary stimulus program. The bank&#8217;s latest projections foresee an average inflation rate of 1.3% this year. It will have the chance to update that forecast when its Governing Council meets next week. Equities elatedOutside Europe, stocks are on a giddy tear, as growth-optimism mounts even if it definitely wasn&#8217;t today&#8217;s Swiss GDP print that gave them that feeling. Stock gauges worldwide chalked up a handful of bullish levels: US and UK indexes set records on Wednesday, Japanese stocks jumped to the highest since December 2015 today, while European stocks were fluctuating after closing at the highest level in more than a year the day before. Crude sterlingBy coincidence, both oil and the pound are mired in their longest losing streaks in two months. By 4:55am, oil was sliding for a third day as record-high US crude stockpiles were seen jeopardizing Opec s efforts to drain a global surplus, even while Saudi Arabia&#8217;s February shipments fell. In newly released UK data, a gauge of construction-industry demand dropped for a second month in February. Prime Minister Theresa May vowed to have another go, after her Brexit bill was defeated in Parliament&#8217;s second chamber on Wednesday. Snap IPOSnap, the Los Angeles-based maker of disappearing photo technology favored by millennials, will start trading on the New York Stock Exchange today. Having priced shares above the marketed range, the company&#8217;s going public at a valuation more than twice that of Facebook and four times more than Twitter. Demand outpaced the number of shares being offered by a multiple of 10, people familiar with the situation said. 2017 Bloomberg