Sanlam was forced to repatriate funds invested offshore, on behalf of South African clients, after the rand weakened in 2015.The depreciation of the local unit, triggered by the shock dismissal of Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister, caused breaches in the 35% foreign investment allowances in a number of the group s South African funds.As such, the financial services group was forced to repatriate assets belonging to South African clients from its international portfolios. Sanlam chief executive Ian Kirk did not disclose the value of the assets repatriated, only saying that it added to the pressure on the group s international business during the financial year ended December 31 2016. We had negative cash flows of R2.8 billion in 2015 and R4.4 billion in 2016 because we lost some business in the UK market and on top of that once the rand depreciated so much, we were forced to repatriate some money, he told Moneyweb.The repatriation and weak new business growth, had a negative impact on administration and asset management fee income such that the net operating profit from financial services attributable to group s international business fell by 38% on 2015. At the same time the group s emerging market businesses provided much needed support amid challenging conditions, with the net result from financial services increasing by 30%.While its competitors struggled against Nigeria s shrinking oil-based economy and the devaluation of the Nigerian naira, growth in Sanlam s Nigeria operations exceeded expectations. Its new business contribution rose 52% to R407 million. I m so proud of what we ve been able to do in Nigeria. We are number two now in life insurance the business has only been running for six-years, said Kirk.He said the group s success was driven by the work of its Nigerian partners as well as the low rate of insurance penetration in the country, which increases the likelihood of a continued strong performance even in the face of economic headwinds.In India, the net result from financial services increased by 65% during the period under review. However, the effects of demonetisation and the Indian government s scrapping of high value currency notes in a bid to combat black money are not yet reflected in the group s results. We report three months in arrears [in India]. I think we ll have one or two soft quarters, maybe even three, but long term that demonetisation will be positive for India . It has certainly impacted negatively on our business, in terms of the credit business [where] people are more reluctant to take loans and it has affected collections a little bit negatively as well, said Kirk. He added that the group remains positive about its long-term growth prospects in India.At group level, Sanlam reported a 10% increase in its net result from financial services to R8 billion. Barring Santam, where operating margins normalised at 6.4%, down from 9.6% in 2015, all businesses contributed to the growth.Normalised headline earnings fell by 6% to R8.4 billion, partly due to a 65% decrease in net investment returns earned on its capital portfolio.New business volumes increased by 11% to R233 billion.As a December 31 2016, group equity value per share stood at R54.07. The return on group equity per share was 11.8%, missing the 14.1% target due to negative foreign currency translations recognised in foreign operations after the rand strengthened in 2016.Sanlam lifted its dividend by 9.4% to R2.68 per share.Kirk said tough trading conditions are expected to continue, adding that South Africa must not score own goals in 2017.&#8220;Things are very precarious here, as you well know&#8230; We must try and stay solid, support the finance minister as business, work with labour at inclusive growth and just focus on doing the right thing for South Africa in 2017 and then hopefully look forward to some sort of improved operating environment in 2018. The underlying economy in South Africa is improving but we run the risk here &#8211; with what I call own goals &#8211; of messing it up and setting us back. We have to retain our rating as a country,&#8221; he said. Listen to the interview with Sanlam chief executive Ian Kirk on the companies results:&nbsp;