Online ticketing services solution business Quicket, has received an undisclosed investment from KNF Ventures, a SARS-approved section 12J Venture Capital Company dedicated to investing in innovation-driven ventures.Quicket &#8211; a cloud-based ticketing solution that allows anyone to instantly start selling tickets and marketing and managing their own event within minutes &#8211; is a business currently being featured as part of our Moneyweb coverage of the Grindstone Accelerator initiative, a program aimed at raising awareness of early stage funding for entrepreneurs.KNF is managed by leading South African venture capital firm: Knife Capital. As more companies, festivals, adventure sports, schools and individuals opt to plan and manage their own local events and meetings, the need for event-related technologies will continue to grow, says James Hedley, Director of Quicket. Our cloud-based technology platform allows us to provide a seamless user experience whether it is for larger events where event management support may be required or for smaller self-managed events, he adds.Quicket is one of the companies in Knife Capital s year-long entrepreneurship development programme: Grindstone. Quicket does not necessarily require funding as it currently almost doubles in revenue year-on-year off a decent base while being cash-flow positive, says Keet van Zyl, Investment Partner at KNF Ventures. We admire the team s bootstrap tenacity and strong positive company culture. Through Grindstone we ve implemented a few strategic interventions together and realised that there is a good cultural fit and a considerable gap in the African ticketing space if we accelerate the growth of Quicket together .Van Zyl told Moneyweb: One of the key criticisms of venture capital in South Africa is there is insufficient risk appetite for early-stage businesses. Both KNF and Knife Capital have worked hard to break down this perception and this transaction affirms our commitment to the sector. He adds: For a young business to survive in South Africa it requires a lot of support from the surrounding eco-system. This transaction highlights the value of The Grindstone initiative in conjunction with Moneyweb and other partners, which brings together a number of motivated parties who want to see entrepreneurs succeed. We are extremely excited to have the experience of KNF s investor base and Knife Capital s track record of accelerating the growth of local SMEs on board, says Hedley. KNF s investment in Quicket comes at a time when strong digital customer engagement that links real-world experiences creates a competitive advantage for African businesses.