Amazon.com has agreed to buy Dubai-based online retailer Souq.com, betting that e-commerce in the Middle East is poised to take off.The US e-commerce giant beat out Emaar Malls, which runs the world s biggest shopping center and had bid $800 million for Souq.com. Amazon and Souq.com didn t disclose deal terms and declined to comment.Amazon has been stepping up its overseas expansion. Having largely ceded China to Alibaba Group Holding, the Seattle company is waging a war of attrition with Flipkart Online Services in India, where it has pledged to spend $5 billion in the next few years. The Middle East has lagged behind the rest of the world in e-commerce, but online shopping is picking up in such countries as Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, where most people own mobile phones.&#8220;Using an acquisition to enter a geographic region is a new strategy,&#8221; said Edward Yruma, managing director of KeyBanc Capital Markets, in research note. &#8220;Amazon has built its business in India from the ground up over years and just launched Amazon Prime in India last summer.&#8221; In Souq.com, Amazon is getting a well-established player that claims to attracts 23 million online visits a month. The retailer, which employs over 3 000 people, sells over 400 000 products, from televisions to perfumes &#8211; and even mentions that it is known as the &#8220;Amazon of the Middle East&#8221;, according to its website.Founded in 2005 as part of Arab online services provider Maktoob, it was spun out following Yahoo! Inc. s $164 million acquisition of Maktoob in 2009.Souq.com was valued at $1 billion in its last funding round, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time. The retailer secured $275 million in February 2016 from investors including Standard Chartered Private Equity, International Finance Corporation and Baillie Gifford. Souq.com s investors also include hedge-fund firm Tiger Global Management and South African media company Naspers.The deal is one of Amazon s largest acquisitions in recent years. In 2014 it bought game streaming site Twitch for $970 million. The US retail giant began weighing a bid for Souq.com late last year, a move first reported by Bloomberg. Having walked away from a deal earlier in the year, Amazon restarted negotiations to buy the company for as much as $650 million, people familiar with the situation said on March 9. Amazon and Souq.com share the same DNA &#8212; we re both driven by customers, invention and long-term thinking, Amazon Senior Vice President Russ Grandinetti said in a statement.The deal is expected to close this year. 2017 Bloomberg