SIKI MGABADELI: Time now for Tipping Point. It s about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are. Today we speak to Samke Mhlongo-Ngwenya, who is founder and CEO of The Next Chapter Wealth Partners. She takes us though her journey.SAMKE MHLONGO-NGWENYA: Basically The Next Chapter Wealth Partners is a platform that I felt compelled to create to respond to the needs that not just South Africans, but Africans as a whole have, to learn how to convert high earnings into wealth.We&#8217;ve been taught how to earn a living. We go to college to get a good job. We do get good jobs. We do earn pretty decently, but we don t convert that into wealth. And where did I see that? I saw that in my seven years experience at Investec. I saw that in the MBA study I did on over-indebtedness, particularly among black South African females. So I thought there needs to be a platform that is a trusted platform, a relatable platform where we can go to and say: Okay, guys, this is me, honestly, these are my aspirations, these are my issues. How do I get from a position where I am earning a lot but I&#8217;m spending a lot, to generating wealth? .The uncertainty is that consumers are hesitant to give up their lifestyles. So: Please don t make me not take the kids away every year overseas; please don t make me not go to the Durban July; please don t make me give up my Range Rover. So this is what The Next Chapter aims to do. I&#8217;m a debt specialist by profession and by experience, but I have a network of preferred financial advisors and wealth managers. So people can come to me and say, Listen, I need to get out of debt or I don t have a debt problem, I&#8217;m ready to invest who do you suggest? TUMISANG NDLOVU: I like that latter part. Where did it all start for you, though? Have you always known that you would end up where you are now?SAMKE MHLONGO-NGWENYA: Look, they say hindsight is 20/20 vision. I can&#8217;t say I without a doubt knew. But, when I look back, I realise that there are specific defining moments in my life that led me to this path.The first one was when I was about nine, seeing my gran negotiate with the banking consultant at NBS for them not to put us out of our house, and the banking consultant being immovable and not understanding that my gran wanted to absolutely repay. She was saying: This is who I am, this is all I have, let&#8217;s work something out. And they weren t willing to help her. I remember at that time saying to her, Ma, when I&#8217;m big I ll buy you a house . But essentially I think what I was saying with that is I don t want you to ever be in that financially vulnerable position again .And that stuck with me and I just had that conviction to try and help many other women and men not face that position.An then the second sort of defining moment, I guess, would be when I went through a divorce, a two-year dragged-out, messy court, with lawyers and custody action. I went from someone who had a partner who was earning about four or five times what I was earning, so the lifestyle was quite up there, to a fending for yourself now type of thing.I remember making a deal with God to say, Please, if you get me out of this, I promise to dedicate my life to making sure no one else goes through this. Obviously at the time it was just like a flippant statement. It was a cry of desperation. But when I look back I think He took it seriously.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Now talk to us about co-founding your own business.SAMKE MHLONGO-NGWENYA: It&#8217;s hard. I think I&#8217;m lucky in that my business, what I&#8217;m doing now, started out as a side-hustle while I was in employment. It&#8217;s a concept that I had the luxury of proving before I jumped into it full-time. I&#8217;m lucky enough to be in the public speaking space, which is quite lucrative. I&#8217;m also lucky enough to live very leanly. I&#8217;ve got a very small car, which is paid up, and my rent is very low.SIKI MGABADELI: That is Samke Mhlongo-Ngwenya, who is founder and CEO of The Next Chapter Wealth Partners.