Standard Bank has devised a detailed action plan to assist subsidiary Liberty Holdings recover from its short-term challenges and re-establish its competitiveness over the long term.The insurance company, which reported a 46.2% decline in headline earnings to R2.21 million, detracted from Standard Bank s earnings during the financial year ended December 2016. The banking group s headline earnings attributable to Liberty fell by 61% to R955 million.Overall headline earnings and headline earnings per share increased by 4% to R23 billion and R14.40 per share. The reported 4% earnings growth doesn t reflect the operational momentum within the banking franchise. Excluding the poor insurance result from Liberty, banking operations delivered a credible 10% constant currency earnings growth in a strained macro environment. Further, if you consider that there were specific once-off benefits sitting in the FY15 earnings base, the banking operations earnings growth was in fact slightly stronger, said Meyrick Barker, an investment analyst at Kagiso Asset Management.Sim Tshabalala, joint chief executive of Standard Bank, told investors that the banking group has devised around 10 initiatives to turnaround Liberty.Among these initiatives is Standard Bank Group s partnership with Liberty and Stanlib to roll-out a gold standard range of funds. The groups are also working on an initiative to sell diversified risk products to bank clients through Standard Bank Financial Consultants and are working to align their strategies across the African countries in which they operate. Moneyweb previously reported that Standard Bank and Liberty are co-developing a short-term insurance offering. There is a lot of work happening. It s practical, it s short term and it s calculated to deliver during the course of this year, Tshabalala said.The revenue generated by Standard Bank South Africa grew from R39 billion to R67 billion, while headline earnings increased by 9% to R14.6 billion. In South Africa, the threat of a sovereign downgrade by rating agencies to sub-investment grade persisted throughout the year. This in turn negatively impacted the already weak business and consumer confidence and further delayed much needed domestic investment and job creation opportunities. Idiosyncratic politically driven actions added to uncertainty and heightened international investor caution, it said.Revenue from its Africa regions or rest of Africa business tripled to R30 billion while headline earnings increased by 3% to R5.68 billion. The disparity across the geographies was largely driven by more acute impairment charges across the rest of the continent. The growth in Standard Bank s rest of Africa results relative to Barclays was slightly disappointing and might indicate some market share losses within Corporate and Investment Banking. However, this is also reflective of the sheer scale of Standard Bank s rest of Africa operations which generate R5.7 billion in earnings, almost double that of Barclays rest of Africa, said Barker.Vestact s Bright Khumalo said growth from the bank s African operations, albeit off a low base, was impressive as weak oil prices and the effects of a drought affected both the hard and soft commodity-based economies in which the group operates.Net interest income increased by 15% to R56.89 billion while net-interest revenue ticked up 3% to R42.97 billion and operating expenses rose 9% to R56.24 billion.The group achieved a positive JAWS ratio of 0.3% compared with 2% previously.It reported a slight improvement in its credit loss ratio to 0.86%, down from 0.87%.Return on equity from banking improved to 16.8% from 16.3% while the group s return on equity dipped to 15.3% from 15.6%. Standard Bank lifted its dividend by 16% to R7.80 per share.Shares in Standard Bank closed 6.54% higher at R155.95 per share. The Domestic Banking Index rose by 2.86%. 