NASTASSIA ARENDSE: The Grindstone Accelerator is a structured entrepreneurship development programme that assists high growth innovation-driven companies to become sustainable and fundable. Throughout this series we ll be sitting down with each of the 10 companies selected for the programme. Today we have Mark Geschke. He is the CEO and co-founder of Xuviate. Mark thank you so much for your time. MARK GESCHKE: You re welcome.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So, share with us your story and how the company got started.MARK GESCHKE: Our actual story started about 22 years ago when I met my current co-founder Mathias Tolken when we started another company. An IT services company which we then continued to build up into a 70 person consultant company servicing IT leaders from small and medium businesses all across South Africa and by about 2010, we started realising that many of our clients were starting to ask the question, why don t we get more business value from IT investment and it completely floored us because we thought we were providing very valuable services and they were starting to question our IT value.So we started digging deeper and we found out, you know what, there s very little support in small and medium businesses on how to get more business value and that led us in 2015 to actually extract ourselves from the previous company, Space Age Technologies, and founded Xuviate, a new company specifically focused on this problem, and this is where we are today.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So, on the topic of Xuviate, what exactly does the company do? What s your offering?MARK GESCHKE: Firstly it s so important to understand that we re very much focused on small and medium businesses, not only in South Africa but across the world and we re tracking a very thorny problem and in fact most businesses these days realise they need to use technology in a better and more effective way but they just don t know how to do that.So we are trying to figure out how do we help these organisations in a way where we don t just come and engage with 5 or 10 organisations in a professional service capacity, but we will actually engage in a very holistic way. One of our first offerings is a Mastermind peer-coaching service for IT leaders and it s nothing else than essentially getting IT leaders together on a regular basis to talk about specific issues in their organisations and how they can actually make better decisions, move a lot faster and invest to really help the organisation. The principle we are leveraging is that small and medium businesses could learn so much from each other regarding technology and we just facilitate that process.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So in terms of the industry you re in, where do you see it in the next five years? What are some of the trends that you and your partner are picking up?MARK GESCHKE: Nastassia, when we originally started our business, there was very little understanding for what we were doing. But in the last couple of years this changed digital transformation, is sort of becoming a very standard requirement. Unfortunately, small and medium businesses still struggle with this concept and many of them are continuing to run their business as they ve done it for the last five, ten or 15 years., We are now just waiting for the time when the market full turns.Quite interestingly, this year, Mathias (co-founder) and I just released two blog articles on the Impact of Digital Transformation on Small and Medium Businesses and that s just taken off. So within a few days we already have 200 shares on LinkedIn and people are responding to the messages we re bringing out. They&#8217;re telling us these businesses are now becoming ready. In the end, every single business out there will have to start their own digital transformation and we see a massive opportunity for us and other companies like us that help these organisations.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you take one person or perhaps even an organisation that will be listening to this interview, who would you want it to be?MARK GESCHKE: I guess the most obvious choice would be the IT leader in these organisations because they often are the best-positioned people to start the process, but ultimately every single senior business leader in a small or medium business should listen to this because over time, every single one of these leaders has to become very comfortable with technology in their own specific role in the business.So the CEO who drives the business gets to make strategic decisions. The financial person who s very much focused on the operational aspects of the business, the marketing person who has to figure out how to better service their customers. Every single leader has to become a technology leader and essentially every person we want to work with.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of starting a conversation with you and getting the Moneyweb audience listening and perhaps even trying to reach you, how do we find you? Is there a website or a LinkedIn account? How do we start that conversation?MARK GESCHKE: One of the easiest ways is if you just go the website and first have a look at what we do and where we can be of assistance, it s at www.xuviate.com. It s spelt like exuviate, but just not the e in the beginning. It s X-u-v-i-a-t-e.com. We re also very open to anybody connecting with us on LinkedIn, both Mathias and I have fairly extensive LinkedIn profiles and you can also directly email us on [email&#160;protected] , that s Mark with a k or Mathias, [email&#160;protected] .NASTASSIA ARENDSE: There are many accelerator programmes out there. What attracted you to the Grindstone Accelerator?MARK GESCHKE: That s an interesting question. We ve actually been part of other accelerator programmes before, so Grindstone stood out for us for three reasons, and it s actually also part of the reason why they exist. They talk about KNF, knowledge, networks and funding. So from a knowledge point of view, the team at Grindstone has a lot of value and they can bring in other knowledgeable people to help us start up and really figure out the next steps.From a networking point of view Grindstone is incredibly well connected, we have already engaged with quite a lot of experts in a lot of industries that could help us directly, and then something which is currently not so important to us but which is very important to know for the future is that as soon as we are ready to scale and get to the next level, they ve got access to funds. So all three of those are important to us.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of the advice that you would have for entrepreneurs, what would the one piece of advice be that you have for them?MARK GESCHKE: Now that s an interesting question. What I see people doing is to just try and figure out how they can use technology and somehow build a massive organisation. Unfortunately, that approach in many instances just doesn t work and my advice is really, figure out what you are really passionate about as an individual, where you have a lot of experience, perhaps prior experience, some sort of idea, some problem where you know that you can contribute. And then when you know what that problem is, then settle in for the long term, because there s absolutely no way that you are going to build a business within a few months and make lots of money.You need to know that you have to commit for a long period of time. It s like Peter Diamand, one of my personal heroes always says, a successful or an overnight success happens after you ve worked for ten years in the background and really, I believe that that is true, and many entrepreneurs just don t know that.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Alright Mark, we ll have to leave it there. Thank you so much for your time.MARK GESCHKE: Awesome, thank you very much.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Great.MARK GESCHKE: Have a good day. Bye.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Mark Geschke, he s the CEO and co-founder of Xuviate.