Workforce has shrugged off sluggish economic growth and near record high unemployment levels to deliver double-digit growth for the financial year ended December 2016.The group s core staffing and recruitment business was able to derive benefits from operating amid challenging conditions. Our business is very defensive in nature, certainly in the temporary employment services market. As the economy is tough, you find more corporates looking less likely to commit to employees on a permanent basis and all the costs associated with permanence and are much more open to taking people on through a temporary employment services model, which is the core of our business, said chief executive Philip Froom.He went on to explain that amendments to labour regulations, particularly around temporary employment, published in 2015 eased some uncertainty in the industry and allowed the group to build its core blue collar market share.The regulations did, however, eat away at its share of the white collar staffing and recruitment market as some financial services providers opted to convert temporary employees into permanent employees.Willie van Wyk, the group s financial director, added that the regulations brought credibility and stability to the labour broking industry.While the staffing and recruitment business continues to grow, its contribution to earnings is gradually decreasing. This, as the group continues to diversify its business making investments in its training and consulting, financial and lifestyle products, employee health management, and process outsourcing businesses.Group Ebitda grew 29.4% to R137.9 million, of which staffing and recruitment contributed 79%, down from 86% in the prior corresponding period.The division contributed R2.16 billion to total revenue of R2.52 billion, which increased by 29.4% year-on-year.Operating expenses grew 32% to R461 million, largely due to trade receivable impairments of R29.5 million. In our environment, we re quite a high turnover lower margin industry. We run a big debtors book because we re paying the staff and then invoicing our clients, by the nature of our business we re actually banking our clients so naturally we will have bad debts in our operating module as part of our costs of trading, Froom said.Van Wyk said the group will continue to pursue collection from large international clients as well as those in the mining sector, against which impairments were taken.Headline earnings per share increased 20.1% to 40 cents. Cash and cash equivalents surged more than 400% to R75.1 million. However, the group did not declare a dividend, opting instead to invest for growth.It sees opportunities to grow its temporary employment services business, which currently accounts for 3% of the total market in South Africa. It is also pursuing both organic and acquisitive growth within its training and consulting business.Post-financial year end, the group acquired Mauritius-based Day-Click, which specialises in recruiting for that country s hospitality industry. The group also operates in five countries within the SADC region and is keen to follow its clients into the rest of the continent.Froom, who took the reins in August 2016, has also prioritised improving investor relations, explaining the business to stakeholders and quashing the negative connotations around labour broking. Temporary employment services is the first entry for a person to obtain a job and that allows a person to obtain a job. In the past, there was all this negative press around it because I think it was misunderstood and the unions were very anti labour brokers. But with the new regulations, I d like to think we re in a much more stable labour environment. Labour broking is not a dirty word, we re the highest single creator of jobs in the country and the biggest creator of youth employment, he said.The volume of shares traded in the company increased to 13.2 million, up from 5.9 million in 2015.This article was brought to you by Workforce Holdings.