R244.6 billion. This is what it would cost investors and funders for the JSE s top 17 listed financial sector companies to achieve the 25% black ownership target, as stipulated by the country s broad based black economic empowerment codes.This is as calculated by the National Empowerment Fund, whose CEO presented the NEF s recommendations on transformation of the Financial Sector to parliament s standing committee on finance on Wednesday.The NEF calculated this figure as follows:Total market cap of the top 17 listed financial sector companies is: R1.6 trillionBEE (direct) ownership achieved to date at an average of 6%: R97.8 billionFunding gap to reach 10% FSC ownership target @4%: R65.2 billionFunding gap to reach 25% ownership target to Codes @ 15% R244.6 billionChief among the criticisms of the various parties making presentations (which included the B-BBEE Commission and National Association of Cooperative Financial Institutions of SA and the SA Reserve Bank) is that while the Financial Sector Charter (FSC) sets an ownership target of 25%, it sets direct black ownership at 10%, with the other 15% comprised of indirect ownership. There is no doubt the FSC remains an important document, but it is important to highlight its shortcomings, said Philisiwe Mthethwa, CEO of the NEF. The 10% target for direct ownership is too low. The contentious subject of once empowered, always empowered came up for discussion. Of the JSE s top 17 listed financial service companies, twelve have concluded their BEE transactions, which means that the vesting period has been fulfilled and the black shareholders are no longer bound by lock-ins. As a result in all but three cases, direct black shareholding has fallen to below the 10% threshold.When asked for his views on the subject by EFF MP Floyd Shivambu, Nedbank CEO Mike Brown replied that the concept was valid. It is valid in an entity with regulated capital, he said. Because banks use their own capital to finance an empowerment transaction, that financing effectively sterilises the regulated capital base of the bank. That is because the bank is using investable capital that could be used elsewhere. In other words it takes away from productive capacity of the economy.The FSC also set a target of R122 billion for empowerment financing, which was designated for investment in four targeted investment components, namely, low-income housing, black SMEs, transformational infrastructure and agriculture. This figure was based on the 2002 baseline and has not been adjusted to cater for inflation, population or economic growth, says Mthethwa. This figure is too low in the context of an industry with R4.8 trillion of assets, as of September 2016. Among other recommendations made to the standing committee was for the formation of a state-owned bank with Mercantile Bank and African Bank touted as potential targets. The objective would be to increase competition and deconcentrate the sector.The committee hearings are continuing. 