RYK VAN NIEKERK: Welcome to this Market Commentator podcast. My name is Ryk van Niekerk and as always, we are talking markets. My guest today is Daphne Botha, she is a portfolio manager at Futuregrowth Asset Management and she is also the chairperson of the investment committee and responsible for overall risk monitoring. Daphne welcome to the show. That is quite a mouthful. I assume you are pretty busy looking at risks at the moment.DAPHNE BOTHA: Yes, maybe just on the risks that I look at, the risks which are a specific component of my title talking to risk. It talks about portfolio risk so it s how we manage our funds relative to mandate, making sure that all our funds are aligned. Our message to clients is we have one investment view so we always have to ensure that all similar funds have similar risk exposures.RYK VAN NIEKERK: How do you measure that risk in a fixed-income environment, do you only look at ratings?DAPHNE BOTHA: One of the interest rate helps. One of the key risks is obviously interest rate risk so there we would look at interest rate risk in terms of modified duration. So how sensitive the portfolios are relative to market movement on an overall basis. And then we also look at where the portfolio, not part of the yield curve portfolios are exposed to. So whether they&#8217;re hikes just at the short end, medium end or long end. That s the interest rate risk component.Then we look at credit risk, there we also look at specific exposure to issuers, specific exposure to ratings so whether it s a good quality credit in the AA-AAA space or a lower quality credit in the BBB-BB space and making sure that the risks are appropriate to the mandate. And then obviously we look at other risks like derivatives. A lot of our funds allow derivative exposure so making sure that the risks again are appropriate to the specific mandates.Investments in parastatals suspended RYK VAN NIEKERK: Last year, Futuregrowth made headlines when it decided to suspend investments in some of the parastatals and I know Andrew Canter at the time did provide some insights as to why the decision was taken. I assume you were part of that process?DAPHNE BOTHA: I was, yes.RYK VAN NIEKERK: What was the run up to that decision, what was the talk within Futuregrowth? I would imagine you never expected the political outcry that followed?DAPHNE BOTHA: Oh no, definitely not. We re not we re apolitical where that s concerned. Our main concern was, there s increased risk in our portfolios because of the management of the SOEs and that was what was kind of at the core of it. Our primary concern was our clients and our investments that we d made on their behalf.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But subsequently you ve suspended that undertaking and I assume you ve resumed investing in some of the parastatal bonds?DAPHNE BOTHA: Yes.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Did that influence or did it have an impact on your risk profile?DAPHNE BOTHA: Not particularly, we re a credit house specifically. We re known in the market for our credit investments and one of our key &#8211; the cornerstones of our investment philosophy is diversification. So we always make sure that no single investment will actually negatively impact on the portfolio. So we ve resumed three of the six investments. That was Land Bank, DBSA and the IDC. We ve participated in subsequent auctions in those counters and I wouldn t necessarily say that we ve increased risk significantly.SA bond marketRYK VAN NIEKERK: What are your main investments in South Africa in the bond market? Which bonds do you prefer and which don t you prefer?DAPHNE BOTHA: So this is a little bit mandate specific. A big part of our house is in the money market space, there your investment universe is very much centred around bank exposure and then you ve seen a few corporates, a few parastatals and a lot of securitisation is actually coming into that domain. So there s less diversification or less opportunity to diversify your portfolio there.In the bond space, I wouldn t say that we necessarily have a preferred area. From the credit perspective, we look at each counter from the bottom up. So we look at each counter s fundamental business case in order to decide whether it s a good investment or not.RYK VAN NIEKERK: How much of your bond portfolio is actually in parastatal bonds?DAPHNE BOTHA: It will vary. It will vary depending on the specific portfolio. We ve got over 50 different types of fixed income portfolios at Futuregrowth. So it s very hard to give one generic number.Impact of investment ratings downgradeRYK VAN NIEKERK: We currently have a sword hanging over our heads and that is rating agencies prospective changes in the &#8211; or a downgrade of our sovereign rating and obviously that would have a significant impact on especially bonds. What is your view currently on the rating agencies potential impact on this market?DAPHNE BOTHA: As a South African citizen, obviously I don t want us to be downgraded, but as an investor and looking at pure fundamentals we ve actually compared ourselves to other countries that are already sitting at below investment grade, and based on those metrics we should actually be there already. We re not quite sure as to what the rating agencies reasons are for delaying the decision, but as I said, we re a little bit conflicted. From a fundamental perspective, we re already trading as a below investment grade country. If you look at international CDS (credit default swap) spreads, South African CDS spreads, we re definitely in the BB space.RYK VAN NIEKERK: South Africa today is I think in a better position than it was in February, March last year. What do you think the prospects are of a downgrade later this year?DAPHNE BOTHA: I think one of the key issues facing our country is growth and our ability to actually create new sources of growth. We re a developing country, we re talking about 1% growth levels, that s not really the space that developing countries should operate in. We should be talking at least 3% and higher. I think that s one of the big issues that we have and growth obviously has a ripple effect into revenue which has an effect on our budget deficit, so the cornerstone is actually our ability to generate growth and the rating agencies have mentioned this specifically as a concern.Aggressive outflow from equity marketsRYK VAN NIEKERK: Another interesting trend in South Africa is an aggressive outflow of international money from the equity markets. Some of it is going into the bond market, probably a lot more than many people think. How does that affect the bond market?DAPHNE BOTHA: We actually still see continued we obviously monitor that in a big way. Foreigners the holdings of foreign investors of domestic nominal bonds is enormous. They re seen as a category of investors, they re the single biggest holders of South African domestic debt. So we ve seen outflows last year, we re seeing outflows again this year and that remains a big concern for us.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Is it significant outflows from the bond market?DAPHNE BOTHA: No, not so much. I ve seen numbers year to date of about R2bn, but not a lot, it s at the margin but obviously with every auction that comes through, there s concern who s going to take up the auction next Tuesday? Are the locals going to buy? Are the foreigners going to come back? So there s a lot of uncertainty.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Obviously the currency or the exchange rate is one of the big risk factors for international investors and the rand has strengthened, so in many ways the international investors will get a very decent return on top of the yields we are paying.DAPHNE BOTHA: Yes, for them it kind of works the other way around, so this adds actually to the risk. For 2016, the local bond market produced 15,5% return in ZAR. We converted that into a dollar based return which came to a number of 30%. So as an investor you would think that that return, to be repeated is actually a low probability event and that s why we actually do expect some outflows from foreign investors as a result of that. The foreign market is a little bit hard to pin down because it is so vast. You have to decide whether its index trackers or whether its asset managers, it is impossible to actually form a concrete view on whether those are going to stay or not.US interest rates RYK VAN NIEKERK: Let s talk about international markets. Many people expect an increase in interest rates in the US. What are your views and how do you think it will impact the bond market there?DAPHNE BOTHA: Yes, if you look at the fundamentals as well, we ve seen growth improve over the last year or two. Inflation actually is picking up very nicely, in fact it s gone above that psychological 2% hurdle that the FED is kind of tracking. So there s definitely inflation. They were aggressively trying to reflate, so that seems to have worked. So definitely interest rate hikes are on the cards, I don t think the FED will be too aggressive because global growth, while it s improving is still very fragile. There are many factors, both positive and negative affecting the global growth outlook. So I don t know that they can in all honestly actually aggressively hike rates. I just don t think they ll have the appetite for that.RYK VAN NIEKERK: So you expect a continued low interest rate environment in the US and maybe Europe as well and that will keep the yields there extremely depressed which could lead to more investments here.DAPHNE BOTHA: I don t know about, I think the US will definitely hike rates still, but not aggressively. The European Union, I think have other issues, there specifically is a lot of political noise as well. The elections in France and in Germany, two of the bigger components of that area and growth there is particularly fragile. So there, I think the ECB is still talking about quantitative easing so I don t know that rate hikes is necessary on the cards there.Future of carry trade and the impact on bonds RYK VAN NIEKERK: In that perspective, the carry trade has been very critical to our economy especially to reduce deficits. What do you think will be the future of carry trade and how will it impact our bonds? Do you think South Africa will remain relatively attractive for foreign investors looking for yield?DAPHNE BOTHA: Probably but at a smaller percentage of fund. I think also if we do have an investment ratings downgrade we might see some further cutting of positions in South Africa and that is obviously one of the big consequences of that ratings decision.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Equity markets around the world are at an all-time high, definitely not in South Africa, but there are different risk profiles in every geography as you ve highlighted. From a fixed income perspective how should South African investors view these fixed income investments?DAPHNE BOTHA: Fixed income investments, local&#8230;?RYK VAN NIEKERK: Yes local.Decrease in local inflation DAPHNE BOTHA: It s very hard to tell people how to view it. Our view is we re particularly negative on local bonds, particularly because there&#8217;s the ratings risk, there&#8217;s linked to that the risk of foreign investors. The budget came out a week ago and it wasn t overwhelming. In fact it was marginally negative for us. We re not seeing significant urgency on the part of Treasury to actually just hone in on spending and they ve increased taxes. It could have been made a little bit more broad-based as opposed to pin-pointing specific sectors which we ll see whether that is positive or negative for the economy, it s still to be determined. But overall from a bond investment perspective it wasn t necessarily that overwhelming. And we re concerned about one of the outcomes of the budget is potential increase in weekly bond issuance and that will have a direct impact on yields especially if foreigners step back a little bit.So local inflation is probably one of the positive points in the domestic markets. Inflation peaked in December at about 6.8%. It s projected to come down to about 5.5% &#8211; 5% for the year but that is still at the top end of the inflation target range and so that still causes some concern. It s not like in the heyday when that inflation in a down cycle breached or sometimes just touch the lower end of the range. So inflation while positive is not overwhelmingly so and South Africa has some issues in managing inflation expectations which also has an impact on the number eventually.RYK VAN NIEKERK: We do expect a sideways volatility on the equity market and bonds did perform pretty well last year. It was the best performing asset class. Would it be unreasonable to expect a similar scenario this year?DAPHNE BOTHA: I think so, yes, one of the key drivers of that massive return last year was, if you remember in December 2015 we had the Nenegate event which pushed yields up much higher into December and January 2016. Your starting point for the year was quite high and during the first half of the year you had foreigners aggressively enter our market in terms of bond purchases and that was the primary driver of the returns for the year.We don t have that high starting point this year, so that alone will mean a more normal return. If you look at yields now, the 10-year is sitting at R870 and the very long end, the 2048 bond is sitting at R960. So if yields stay flat that s the kind of returns that one can expect.RYK VAN NIEKERK: I think many investors would take that.DAPHNE BOTHA: I suppose they would. That assumes we stay as is, that there is very little ratings hike risk priced into the domestic market. That also assumes that foreigners demand for South African bonds stay there. You have to remember that the foreign risk it is actually quite significant. They don t actually sell bonds, they just have to stop buying our bonds to sell. So that actually adds to our risk there.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Could you explain that in a bit more detail?DAPHNE BOTHA: Every week we issue bonds to the value of just over R2bn worth of bonds in the nominal market. Someone has to buy them so the big buyers during the past year obviously have been foreign investors. If the foreign investors don t buy them the domestic investors or the local banks or the primary dealers would be forced to buy those bonds. If they don t have a natural appetite for them they will bid at higher yields. That will push the yields higher over time.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Obviously the capital value would be less?DAPHNE BOTHA: Would be less yes. So I think that one underestimates the risk of that big foreign holding in our domestic market, it is quite a significant risk.Best case political scenario for the bond market RYK VAN NIEKERK: We live in South Africa, surprises are not that uncommon, and we re going to have a very politically sensitive year. What is the best case political scenario for the bond market this year?DAPHNE BOTHA: The bond market, bond investors are risk averse and don t like surprises. So I think big surprises would definitely spook the market. Obviously in terms of the elective conference of the ANC at the end of the year, there are some candidates bandied about and people have formed their views. Some of them might have expressed them in positions already. It s very hard to say but if any other person comes out of the woodwork and becomes a runner into the elective conference that will obviously spook the market.So it would be the surprise, unexpected, etc. surprise decisions, so there have been some rumours in the market about another cabinet reshuffle that has the market on edge. There is a lot of noise if I can put it that way in the market at the moment. So you ll have seen over the past week you ll have 10 BPS (basis points) higher, 10 BPS lower followed by the next day, so the market has a lot of uncertainty and you don t need a lot of bad or good news actually to move the market.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But people see the fixed income market as a lot safer than equities for example. Can you just quickly explain what would happen if we have another political shock and the rand depreciates sharply again, what would happen to the bonds?DAPHNE BOTHA: I guess if one assumes it s the same magnitude as happened in December 2015, the bond yields sold off by 150 BPS that is significant and that is in a day. We have obviously bond yields selling off with the inverse relationship between price and yield, the prices of all our domestic bonds drop, so basically our portfolio has lost a significant amount of value on one day. If I can put it in numbers, if you think about the All Bond Index if the interest rate risk of your bond index is sitting at about seven, give or take, so a 1% move in the market in yields higher, would cause the value of the index to drop by 7% and that was in one day.RYK VAN NIEKERK: How long did it take to normalise again?DAPHNE BOTHA: We had weakness through December and into January as well and then it was over a period of let s say six months that the market moved down. The initial move down was quite quick in February, March, and then after that it slowly moved lower.RYK VAN NIEKERK: So it could be a strategy that if we do have another political bombshell, buy bonds?DAPHNE BOTHA: Into the weakness, yes. But I think part of the problem is that you need to be able to predict that and it s impossible to do unless you have insight into the inner workings of government.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Thank you Daphne. That was Daphne Botha, she is a portfolio manager at Futuregrowth.