&nbsp;NASTASSIA ARENDSE: The Grindstone Accelerator is a structured entrepreneurship development programme that assists high-growth, innovation-driven companies to become sustainable and fundable. Throughout this series we ll be sitting down with each of the ten companies selected for the programme. Today we have Willie van Wyk, who s the managing director of CT Lab. Tell us about CT Lab, how did your company start?WILLIE VAN WYK: Well, in 1994 I bumped into an old friend of mine who worked at Eskom and when I asked him what was new and exciting within Eskom he mentioned that the measurement of power quality is of great concern to them. So I then approached Eskom, where I was told they ve chosen the Siemens quality meter, in those days, for the measure of quality and supply, but they do require a smaller and a cheaper version for the South African market.This triggered my imagination and I developed the first device focusing on the measurement of power quality called a ProvoGraph. Soon afterwards Eskom contacted me with the news that the Germans did not want to adapt their power quality instrument for the South African market. We then agreed to write the new specification for the South African market and one day at my home Mr Tim Hennessy, one of the senior Eskom managers, knocked on the door and placed an order of 60 units with us.So, being fortunate enough to have an order we went to the bank and got financed and our first proudly South African product was born, called the VectoGraph. Since then the VectoGraph has become the standard power quality measurement device for the entire South African market for the past 25 years. So we ve got quite a long history from that first start.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So what exactly does CT Lab do?WILLIE VAN WYK: We monitor the electrical performance of facilities and of plants and of electrical grids. So it s three major markets and you can see it s from the utilities side to mines and industry and facilities to ensure that they are operated within their designed parameters. Now, unlike the conventional smart meters, we simultaneously measure more than 9 000 electrical parameters, so there s a lot of processing that happens there. We analyse and record data and we learn the operational characteristics of the facility or the plant or the network from that. And, once we know that, we set limits to them and when those limits are exceeded we send alarms out via email, SMS or push notifications. Just note, there s a big difference: in some of the traditional systems it s behind the scenes, nobody knows; we went personal. So this is quite a new contribution to the industry. They can interact and intervene to make sure that the parameter is turned back to normal. Now, by powering your electrical equipment within the designed specification you maximise the longevity of the electrical equipment; this in return reduces the operational risk and maximises the plant availability, and then also ultimately your product quality. So in the end it s all about quality.Now, facilities plants and the electrical grid are live organisms, they constantly change. This introduced new risk that you have there. So to manage this risk you have to permanently check whether the network or the plant or the grid is still able to support the changing characteristics of the load. Another point to make is that not all electricity is created equally. Most users will not think twice about powering equipment from a generator or from a UPS in the absence of mains power, but the electricity output can really harm your equipment when it comes from generators and UPS; it s the same as electricity coming from the mains.To conclude, we identify hidden capacity within networks and we point out weak points in it; we make visible technical and non-technical losses. this is a big issue in our municipal world for us. And we benchmark network performance and we identify short and long-term risks, also a big issue for the municipalities; we investigate faults and complaints, those places where your plant just dies without your knowing what happened. We reduce system and plant downtime, we improve longevity of networks and plant equipment and we save on maintenance and overtime. We give customers a deep, meaningful insight into the risks and the opportunities associated with electricity supply.Challenges of the businessNASTASSIA ARENDSE: When you look back at the business what would you say has been the most challenging or difficult decision you and your team have had to make?WILLIE VAN WYK: We are a small, close-knit, family-orientated company and once we had to lay off people and I had to choose who had to stay and who had to go, that was the most difficult one for me because they re all friends.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: And the most satisfying moment in the business?WILLIE VAN WYK: I can say that happened recently. One of the most satisfying moments was when we received international certification. We then knew we had laid a solid foundation for CT Lab to build a new future on. Another satisfying moment was the development of this nice platform that we have. We took more than five years and we ve spent more than R25 million to develop this platform. Apart from IDC grants and so on, no external funding was given and we managed to pull it through on our own.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: When you look at the industry you re in, where do you see it going in the next few years?WILLIE VAN WYK: The electricity industry is really undergoing tremendous changes; there is almost a revolution happening. To name a few, many of the disruptive technologies that are on the way, IT is catching up; you can understand that traditional industry really didn t use IT, it s just for communication but not the analysis of data and so on. The renewable market is already at a tipping point, so that s a big game-changer that lies ahead for us. Grid storage is coming, it s the age of the Internet of Things, we talk about big data, all the buzzwords and so on, and data analytics. So electricity managers will become more reliant on quality network performance data.I think just to focus on quality, traditional instruments really just don t have the quality information that is needed to manage a model system there. New, richer sets of more accurate data are actually now needed. Now, data needs to be analysed and it needs to be presented to users in context, but also in an understandable format. That brings me to another important topic and that s education, from my side, our market is not under-educated on uneducated, but it s inexperienced, so people are not really empowered to do what they can do.CT Lab is absolutely passionate about the power of knowledge. Being in the measurement business, we always say &#8220;to measure is to know what s going on,&#8221; so we currently sponsor research at North West University at the Potchefstroom campus under Professor Johan Rens, and today we invest more than 20% of our turnover back into technology development. Dr Jacobus van Zyl is managing that for us. We also recently appointed Dr Elsa Lombard to head our training department. So we are actively involved in research and the development part of it, and then also in the training of customers.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I m listening to your story and how passionate you are about power and electricity. Is it safe for me to assume that you are an electrical engineer?WILLIE VAN WYK: Yes.Opportunities for young engineers NASTASSIA ARENDSE: It s quite interesting that you talk about investing in research and development and the people you are partnering up with. Are you finding that a lot of young people are keen to come into the field that you re in, electrical engineering, and is there work that you do where you support engineers who are students or graduates to come and work with you guys?WILLIE VAN WYK: To manage quality is always very exciting because you touch almost everything. So it s a fundamental science that you work with and it s a very rewarding kind of job. Now, what has happened traditionally in municipalities and industry, because of the lack of skills somebody has just been appointed to get the job [done]. But when you come with proper knowledge it is very satisfying to make a change. I think also that the young students who went through the school at North West University we see them now being top managers are Orecon. So whenever we come across them you can see they are in very satisfying careers and making a big difference.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you could have one person or an organisation listening to this interview, who would that be?WILLIE VAN WYK: Definitely the energy regulator, Nersa. The energy regulator created the market for us, they made the implementation of power quality monitoring mandatory. So it s part of a licence condition. But unfortunately they forgot one important one, and that was to say the system should be operated by certified people. We are now playing rugby and nobody has trained for it, there is no facility to train them and that makes it difficult for us as an industry to change. I think, although we have been operational for about 25 years, our industry is still seriously lacking qualified and experienced personnel and that really defeats the purpose of regulating the quality of electricity.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If someone is listening to this interview and they want to start a conversation with you, how do they contact you?WILLIE VAN WYK: The best place would be www.ctlab.com all our information is accessible and available on the website.Benefits of Grindstone Accelerator NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I m sure you ve heard of a lot of accelerator programmes that are running at the moment, what attracted you to the Grindstone Accelerator?WILLIE VAN WYK: The Grindstone programme is really unique. We couldn t find anything else; the moment we heard about it our ears just pricked up. Grindstone heavily invests time and personal attention into all its participants. So it s not a one-sided kind of thing; people are hands-on involved with us. They provide us with exposure to real industry experts and those guys really share knowledge that is priceless. On top of that they give us access to their global network and, as you know, it s all about relationships. I personally have been in an incredible and exciting learning curve these past six months. As a company we are a tech company and we sit with a Rolls Royce in a garage and we try to get that Rolls Royce out. So there s a whole new world lying ahead for us. The Grindstone team have proven to be great people. I respect them and I really love to work with them.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you had one piece of advice that you could share for other entrepreneurs out there, what would it be?WILLIE VAN WYK: A very important one: don t give up, follow your dreams and really be passionate about it. If the passion is not there you are not going to make it. But you ve got to frequently stop and listen to experienced people for advice. I think especially in the technical world we try and think we can do everything on our own, but you need help. So surround yourself with people who build you up and get away from the people who pull you down. It s really going to be harder than you anticipate.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: But you ve just got to hang in there.WILLIE VAN WYK: Just hang in there. I once bumped into an Australian guy who said to me what s wrong with you, how can you have done this thing for the past 25 years? Well, they can t take away the experience.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That s great, it s been awesome talking to you but we ll have to leave it there for now. That was Willie van Wyk, the managing director of CT Lab.