A bit of a mixed bag here today. I did a client and budget presentation in Cape Town last week, so spent a few days there. Some comments on my tripThe budget, Sars and taxAs I said, I did a presentation for a large and well-respected audit, accounting and tax firm. Shared the podium with probably the most respected tax consultants in SA. Their comments about tax and Sars in particular were most interesting. The surfacing of the correspondence between the finance minister and head of Sars at more or less the same time also adds to this discussion.I have no personal experience to relate. All that I am discussing here is what the other presenters talked about at the event. Sars was severely criticised and one presenter even said that it has collapsed , but interestingly enough not because of inefficiencies or incompetence, but because it was ruthless in its pursuit of tax revenue, sometimes even not following their own procedures and rules.A few examples mentioned:Refunds. It seems virtually impossible to get a refund. You are audited before any refund and this process takes a very long time. Interest on the refund owed to you only starts accruing once Sars has got the documents they request from you. Seems that they ask for one document, you then submit, then they ask for another document, you the submit and so it goes on and on and on. And while this process continues, interest does not accrue on the money they owe you. If your provisional tax returns (the second in particular) are incorrect, you are heavily penalised. But previously income was overestimated by tax payers just to be safe to avoid penalties and interest. If you overpaid you just got your excess back. Now it seems, because your cannot get a refund, taxpayers are underestimating taxable income, as it is less costly to pay the penalties/interest than to overpay and wait for a refund.Punitive penalties. Previously penalties were reserved for true tax delinquents and were only used to punish. Now it seems as if penalties are being used as a legitimate and normal part of the tax gathering process. They are also used as a scare tactic to force taxpayers to settle, even if the taxpayer has a legitimate tax argument or disagreement.Queries and ombud. The query and ombud system is so overloaded that it simply cannot cope with the volume of disputes. One quote was that a query was submitted to the ombud and they have not even acknowledged receipt thereof three months later.Tax moralityThe above were comments and opinions from highly-respected tax practitioners. This therefore brings up a vitally important discussion around tax morality. If taxpayers feel that they are not getting fair treatment from Sars and that the rules and regulations are not being applied consistently, taxpayers may take a very different attitude to paying tax. We are very fortunate that is SA there is actually a very high level of tax compliance, due to a large extent that taxpayers always felt that they would get fair treatment from Sars. The rules were the rules and as long as you stuck to the rules you could structure your tax affairs in the most effective manner, knowing that these structures, if scrutinised by Sars, would be done so fairly.Now it seems as if this trust has been severely damaged by the current aggressive nature of Sars. As I have mentioned many times, I have no firsthand experience of this, but these comments come from experts who deal with this every day. In many countries, tax evasion is a national sport. Let s hope that we are not heading down the same road.Cape TownOfficially Cape Town now has worse traffic congestion than Johannesburg. I experienced this first hand last week. You cannot go anywhere at just about any time and travel freely. However a lot of this is due to tourism. Cape Town is swamped by tourists and tourist buses. This is fantastic for SA.I did a fair amount of travelling off the highways on roads in the suburbs. NO POTHOLES. Let s be fair, there has been no rain at all in Cape Town and clearly a lot in Johannesburg, but still I did not have to concentrate more on the road than the traffic, as is the case now at home. Also interestingly it seems that it is a well-established cultural phenomenon that everyone waits 5 seconds after the robot has changed green before you move. Taxis, while they also stop everywhere at any time, do not overtake on the other side of the road, despite oncoming traffic, and then barge their way into the front of the all the cars waiting patiently.