The King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa (King IV) was released by the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa (IoDSA) on November 1, 2016. The King Committee, responsible for the King Codes, thought it necessary to revisit King III, the predecessor of King IV dating back to 2009. This was in light of various international developments in relation to corporate governance, for example integrated reporting (with the release of the International Integrated Report Framework in December 2013) and responsible investing (with the issue of the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA) in 2011). In substance, King IV is a refinement and repackaging of King III, although shorter in length and containing fewer principles. It retains similar underlying philosophies and concepts such as responsibility, accountability, fairness and transparency, and borrows many principles and practices from King III, in some cases, verbatim. King IV also introduces some new concepts, and polishes certain of the existing principles, aiming to provide a more refined guide to corporate governance.Like King III, King IV addresses all organisations, regardless of their form of incorporation or establishment and whether in the public, private or non-profit sectors. In practice, mainly large and listed companies applied the principles of King III. The proclaimed goal of King IV is to broaden acceptance of corporate governance by making it accessible and fit for application for all, across sectors, organisations and entities of various sizes, resources and complexity of strategic objectives and operations. Accordingly, King IV refers to &#8220;organisations&#8221; as opposed to &#8220;companies&#8221;, to &#8220;governing bodies&#8221; instead of &#8220;boards&#8221; and to &#8220;members of governing bodies&#8221; instead of &#8220;directors&#8221;.Although King IV provides that all organisations should strive to apply the principles of the code to achieve its governance outcomes, it acknowledges that all of the recommended practices cannot be equally applied to all organisations. The practices recommended by King IV are intended to be applied &#8220;proportionally&#8221;, taking into account the size of turnover and workforce, resources and the extent and complexity of activities of the organisation, and the impact on the context in which it operates. King IV also introduces sector supplements adapting the recommended practices for state-owned entities, retirement funds, small and medium enterprises, non-profit organisations and municipalities.Another notable development in King IV is the move away from the King III &#8220;apply or explain&#8221; principle to the &#8220;apply and explain&#8221; principle. &#8220;Apply&#8221; refers to the principles, which King IV considers fundamental to good corporate governance and assumes that all organisations apply. &#8220;Explain&#8221; refers to the practices, the operationalisation of which organisations are required to disclose. Put simply, the disclosure requirements are now more onerous, entities must explain both how they have applied the recommended practices and if they have not applied such practices, explain how the principles have been achieved differently or which other practice has been implemented. Dealmakers would be interested in the influence of King IV on M&amp;A. King IV retains the same status as its predecessors, namely a set of voluntary principles and good practices, save in the case of listed companies, for which those recommended practices that have been incorporated in the JSE Listings Requirements must be complied with. King IV will therefore have an impact on listed M&amp;A through the JSE Listings Requirements. As IoDSA launched King IV, the JSE published proposed amendments to the JSE Listings Requirements for public comment, which incorporate certain of the King IV recommended practices. Amongst others, the proposed amendments to the JSE Listings Requirements incorporate the new &#8220;apply and explain&#8221; approach, and would require listed companies to disclose in their annual report which recommended or other practices they have implemented in order to achieve the principles of King IV, the application of which is assumed under the new approach.Of interest specifically to institutional investors is the new principle 17 on responsible investing. Principle 17 of King IV provides that &#8220;the governing body of an institutional investor organisation should ensure that responsible investment is practiced by the organisation to promote the good governance and the creation of value by the companies in which it invests.&#8221; Institutional investors are defined as any juristic person or institution as referenced in the Financial Services Board Act to the extent that such entities are the holders of shares in a company. King IV encourages institutional investors to integrate sustainability considerations, including environmental, social and governance factors, in their investment analysis, and makes note of the responsible investing principles and practices contained in CRISA and international codes on responsible investing. King IV also includes a specific sector supplement, addressing and applying certain King IV principles to retirement funds including pension, provident, preservation and retirement annuity funds.King IV provides a refinement of corporate governance principles for all organisations, the impact of the Code on M&amp;A will, however, probably remain limited, other than indirectly through the JSE Listings Requirements and on institutional investors, who may or may not be convinced, and are not bound by principle 17.Mc Intosh (pictured below) is an associate with Webber Wentzel in alliance with Linklaters.This article first appeared in DealMakers, SA s quarterly M&amp;A publication.