What are the main risks to an M&amp;A transaction? And which party should bear those risks? These are the kinds of questions that occupy M&amp;A participants and advisors. This article provides a basic overview of some of the more generic risks in private share or business sales, and the current trends A&amp;O has seen in the past 12 months in relation to four of the legal tools used to allocate and manage those risks.Businesses are complex creatures. Thorough due diligence permits both seller and buyer to cut through some of the complexity and understand the business better. While often viewed as a buyer-friendly tool that rewards diligent inquiry in the spirit of caveat emptor, the process of due diligence can also be very valuable to a seller. The seller who facilitates a buyer s due diligence and works to smooth that process (ideally through a meticulously organised virtual data room) is able to strengthen the argument that it does not have to provide extensive warranties on matters that the buyer has been afforded every opportunity to investigate.In the context of a corporate carve-out, where a portion of a business is separated to be later sold, early stage diligence on the sell side greatly assists the separation process and instils confidence in buyers, with the upshot of maximising deal value.The benefits of a thorough due diligence process cannot be overstated, and M&amp;A participants (both buy and sell side) who do not make the most of this opportunity make that decision at their peril. Suspensive conditions (or conditions precedent ) apportion risk between buyer and seller by allowing one or more of the parties to abandon the transaction if the relevant condition is not satisfied or waived. Because a suspensive condition that is not met will cause a transaction to fail, a great deal of care is required in determining whether it is appropriate for a matter to be drafted as a suspensive condition, or rather a mechanical step, which, if not properly executed, will not necessarily cause the deal to fail. In the context of larger M&amp;A transactions, the most important suspensive conditions which are outside the control of the parties relate to regulatory approvals, such as the approval of competition authorities.While a mostly unconditional offer is almost always more attractive to a seller, it is A&amp;O s experience that conditions are imposed on almost all high-value deals and a significant majority of smaller and medium sized ones. In relation to competition and regulatory approval conditions, just over three quarters of our high-value global transactions in the past 12 months require the approval of one or more regulatory authorities.Agreement on price is obviously fundamental in a contract of sale and, unsurprisingly, it is often hotly negotiated. Day-to-day, the financial picture of a business changes, and M&amp;A participants will aim for the agreed price to match views on value of the business that is sold. This situation has the potential to lead to re-negotiations on price, which can be advantageous to one party at the expense of the other. The market uses two main approaches to determine price.First, under the traditional closing accounts approach, the buyer and seller agree an enterprise value of the business on a cash-free, debt-free basis at the date of signature of the sale agreement. This is then adjusted after the agreement s closing date (the date on which ownership of the asset transfers) to account for the cash and debt or other agreed components at the date of closing. The closing accounts approach is often seen as buyer-friendly because of the scope it gives a buyer to chisel price downward. Preparation of the closing accounts can also be a long and complex process that has the potential to give rise to disputes.Second, under the locked box approach, the economic risks of ownership pass to the buyer on an agreed date prior to the closing date, on the assumption that the business will not suffer a leak of value after that date. In this way, the transaction effectively has a fixed price. This has the advantage of forcing the parties to agree, upfront, to the adjustments that are otherwise deferred under the completion accounts approach (for example, cash and debt). This approach gives rise to greater certainty as to price. The locked box approach also has the advantage of potentially reducing the complexity of the sale agreement. Usually, the locked box is based on audited accounts, on which full warranties are given alongside an indemnity for any leakage from the locked box from the accounts date to closing.In our experience, the global trend is a move away from the price adjustment mechanisms and toward the locked box approach, however there are regional variances. For example, market practice in the United States is for deals to retain an adjustment mechanism, while in the UK and Western Europe these mechanisms featured, on average, in only two in five transactions. It remains to be seen if the South African and African markets adopt a clear preference for or against price adjustments.Warranties are a set of promises that a certain state of affairs is true at certain dates. These promises have the practical effect of allocating risk between the parties by exposing the promisor to liability in favour of the promisee if the statement turns out to be false. Even if the parties have undertaken a thorough due diligence process, agreed on suspensive conditions and the deal s pricing mechanism, buyers in an M&amp;A process will almost always ask that the seller gives warranties about the business that is sold, together with an indemnity to make good on payments of damages that flow if those warranties are breached.The extent to which a seller is prepared to provide warranties is generally a matter of bargaining power, and may have an impact on deal pricing. It is our experience, however, that reasonable warranties and specific indemnities are usually conceded, subject to extensive negotiation as to limits and qualifications. In this regard, some of the global trends we see are that:It is worth pointing out that warranty and indemnity (W&amp;I) insurance is rapidly taking hold globally. W&amp;I policies have the potential to greatly simplify warranties negotiations, and allocate associated risks clearly and speedily. We have seen a strong uptake of W&amp;I products, particularly in private equity disposals where use of W&amp;I policies has increased fivefold since 2013.These are just four of the tools in a much broader suite that are used by M&amp;A participants to allocate risks in business acquisitions. It is our view that the macro trends we see globally, such as technology-assisted due diligence, locked-box pricing and W&amp;I insurance are likely to grow in acceptance and become more tightly rooted in the M&amp;A market in South Africa. Thompson is an Associate with Allen &amp; Overy, South Africa. This article first appeared in Without Prejudice, DealMakers sister publication.