A day after prepaid specialist Blue Label Telecoms cemented its agreement to rescue debt-laden Cell C, it has moved to assure the investment community that there won t be widespread changes to its contracts with MTN and Vodacom to distribute airtime or the mobile operator&#8217;s shareholding structure. Blue Label s joint CEO Mark Levy, said it will be &#8220;business as usual&#8221; after the recapitalisation of Cell C, which will see it inject R5.5 billion for a 45% stake in the company. The deal is expected to be a dead cert in June.Blue Label was responding to market rumours that Vodacom and MTN would terminate their airtime distribution services with it at a time when it planned to invest in direct competitor Cell C, SA s third-largest mobile operator.Levy s brother and joint CEO Brett, said its contract with Vodacom still exists and has four-and-a-half years before it lapses. We never got a letter from Vodacom to say that we are breaching our contract [by going into a deal with Cell C] and [that] they are cancelling. In the world of MTN, we have signed a new contract. Blue Label is a neutral aggregator of products and services because it s the model of what we do, said Levy.The company unveiled this on Tuesday during its results presentation for the six months to November 2016, in which it reported a 25% rise in its gross profit to R1.1 billion on the back of 3% rise in revenue to R13.2 billion. It grew its headline earnings per share by 52% to 82.86 cents per share.Blue Label made progress on Cell C s recapitalisation on Monday, as it reached an eleventh-hour agreement that will see the mobile operator s bondholders convert their debt into equity. The agreement involves debt providers, including Nedbank, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China Development Bank, euro bondholders and an unnamed third investor that will invest R2 billion for a 15% stake in Cell C.A successful conclusion of Cell C s recapitalisation will see it reduce its debt load from R23 billion to R6 billion.Cell C s delayed recapitalisation has seen its corporate credit rating downgraded to the junkiest of junk by S&amp;P Global Rating last month after it missed interest payments in January on its 400 million senior secured bonds that are due in 2018. The rating agency lowered its corporate rating to D, the lowest junk level rating on S&amp;P s scale, from CC or highly vulnerable to nonpayment (read more here).ICT research analyst at Frost &amp; Sullivan Mauritz Venter, said the signing of the binding agreement will go a long way in allaying concerns around Cell C s financial predicament. Various stakeholders, as well as rating agencies, will view the agreement as a positive indication that the ailing MNO (mobile network operator) can recover, and will continue to function as a viable business, Venter told Moneyweb. He added that Cell C s expansion of new products and services would take a back seat until its debt reduction and restructuring is finalised.No shareholder changesBrett Levy said that there won t be widespread changes to Cell C s shareholding structure after its recapitalisation. Blue Label will hold 45%, the unnamed investor will hold 15%, 30% would be held by Oger Telecom and 10% might be held by management and staff (it s yet to announce and confirm this). However, Levy said staff and management might be allocated stakes of above 30% as Oger Telecom could potentially relinquish a portion of its shares. The Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) credentials of Cell C will be much greater than the 25%. The BEE partner is CellSaf, which currently owns a 25% stake in Cell C s holding company 3C Telecommunications. According to Business Day, the recapitalisation still faces legal action from CellSaf, which has accused Cell C of not consulting it about the deal with Blue Label.