Rand speculators love Pravin Gordhan. Just look what his roller-coaster political career has done to the currency.On Monday President Jacob Zuma recalled his finance minister from a London overseas roadshow intended to breathe confidence into the SA economy, prompting rumours of his imminent axing, and the currency spilt more than 6% of its hard-won gains in three days.Every exchange of blows between Gordhan and the Zuma/Gupta faction is a profit-making opportunity for rand speculators.There are rumours, as yet unverified, that someone with prior knowledge of Gordhan s recall from London placed large shorts on the currency on Monday. A look at the timing of the jump at 11am on Monday shows nothing particularly unusual about the trade. This is when news of Zuma s instruction to recall Gordhan first broke. But as one market analyst points out, delayed price reaction does not remove the possibility of insider trading: It takes huge volume to move the rand, so you may not see evidence of insider trading in the timing of price movements. Two-way trade in the rand has been particularly robust for more than a month. The improving balance of payments and inflation outlook drove the currency to R12.30 last week, making it the world s best performing currency over the last year. This attracted foreign asset flows, and importers took advantage of the currency strength by taking out strategic hedging positions.Just days before this, analysts were predicting even further rand strength. Everyone was caught off guard by what happened on Monday when Zuma recalled Gordhan from overseas, which the market read as a sign he was about to be fired, says Peter Rattey, head of treasury sales at Investec. We didn t see any unusual trade before that. We now know that the rand is a profit machine for those with the inside track. Last month the Competition Commission released details of collusion in the rand market involving 16 banks. We never knew until now how many ways traders could rig the system to boost profits. They did it by fixing the bid-offer spread, sharing confidential client information and by timing trades to maximise profits for themselves.This, of course, is different to using foreknowledge of political events to profit from currency movements, which has a long history in SA, going back to the apartheid years. Prior to 1995, SA operated two parallel currencies the financial and the commercial rand. The financial rand was used primarily by investment purposes by non-residents, and at times traded at a 20% discount to the commercial rand. This created huge opportunities for profiteering. Billions of rands in profits were allegedly generated by round-tripping the rand, which effectively allowed the perpetrators to convert the cheaper financial rand into the more valuable commercial rand.In December last year, journalists at amaBhungane broke the story of a former employee at Trillian Capital Partners who blew the whistle on her boss s foreknowledge of President Zuma s intention to replace Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister. This was apparently two months before Nene was replaced by Des van Rooyen. The subsequent rout of the rand prompted Zuma with evident reluctance to return Gordhan to the post. This kind of foreknowledge is pure gold in financial market terms. The boss in question, Eric Woods, was also reported to have close ties to the Guptas. Trillian, and Woods, have denied the stories prompted by the whistleblower report.Maybe more mundane, yet equally sinister, reasons lie behind the latest movement in the rand. If you re a foreigner looking at what is going on in the SA government, you may not want to be exposed to this market for very long. We hear rumours that Zuma wants a more pliant finance minister, and Brian Molefe has been mentioned as one possibility, so that he can accelerate economic transformation, whatever that means, says George Glynos, MD at ETM Analytics. I don t know how SA can afford to do this. If Zuma goes through with this, a credit downgrade is all but guaranteed, and interest rates will have to increase. Then the nuclear deal that Zuma seems intent on pushing through becomes even less tenable. Zuma begins to look like a desperate man with bills to pay, trying to stay out of jail. John Moni, a dealer at TreasuryOne, says rumours are driving the rand. The Guptas are stretching their political influence and the rumours of Gordhan about to be fired is pushing the rand hard. These rumours are fuelling the speculative frenzy that has swarmed the rand this week. We may have to wait until next week to see if Zuma intends to deliver the nightmare scenario he has been threatening for the better part of a year. If he does, the rand will likely continue the trend it started this week.