Nastassia Arendse talks to James Hedley about his company Quicket and the advice Hedley gives to young entrepreneurs.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: The Grindstone Accelerator is a structured entrepreneurship development programme that assists high growth innovation driven companies to become sustainable and fundable. Throughout this series we ll be sitting down with each of the ten companies selected for the programme. James Hedley is the director at Quicket and joins us today. James, thank you so much for your time.JAMES HEDLEY: Thank you and thank you for having me on your show.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So tell us about your story, how did the company come together?JAMES HEDLEY: Sure, so in the very beginning it was four of us and we were all staying in an apartment together and we used to organise little events on a regular basis and one major pain point for us was collecting the funds and the details for the people. It was just always such a hassle getting money and often people wouldn t pay and you would have to follow up with them and all sorts of things. So we looked at existing ticketing companies and thought about possibly using them to collect money and realised that was basically impossible and from this pain point we set out to create Quicket, which was a quick and easy do-it-yourself way for anyone with an event concept to collect the funds and the information they need to, to make it a reality.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So once I get on the website or once I reach you or call you, what s the next step? Explain to me how the business model works. JAMES HEDLEY: Sure, it s incredibly simple. Anybody with an event concept can arrive on our website and within ten minutes they can set up their own event and start selling tickets straight away. The whole system is completely self-managed, which means that anybody can control every aspect of the event without even having to speak to anyone at Quicket and this allows us to profitably serve the many thousands of small events that before Quicket had no solution, and we can do this without charging massive admin fees like the other bigger established companies. So we started off with small events, but as we got going we developed a really powerful platform, which has enabled us to actually serve some of the biggest events in the country and we ve worked with the likes of Media24, AfrikaBurn, TedX, Deloitte, big corporate clients like Allan Gray and many thousands of others.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In the industry that you re in, how competitive is it and where do you see the industry going in the next few years?JAMES HEDLEY: Sure, I think ticketing in South Africa and globally is quite a competitive industry particularly amongst the big, above-the-line events. Everybody s after those huge events, we call them trophy wives, because everybody s after them and they re extremely fickle, they go from one competitor to the next and we don t really think that it s a good market for Quicket which is why our core focus has always been on what we call the long tail of the events industry. So that&#8217;s for the many thousands and thousands and literally tens of thousands of smaller events that people create on a daily basis. That said, we do deal with some big clients but the big clients that have unique ticketing needs. So, AfrikaBurn is a great example. We also deal with a lot of schools, corporate clients have become very lucrative for us and generally in the less mainstream areas of ticketing.Where do we see the industry going? When we started this business, probably about 10% of our traffic was mobile and since then and in the last five years, we ve seen that shift to almost 60% of our traffic. So mobile is making up an increasingly large portion of our revenue and I really think it s the future of ticketing. So there s a huge amount of effort and energy and innovation that needs to go into developing mobile as a sales channel and an event discovery channel for people to actually find things to do on the weekend using their phone.Also we ve seen the event industry increasing as a whole. People are social and they want things to do on the weekends, from markets to schools to company functions, product launches, sports events, everything like that. Events are happening everywhere and there s no event that is too big or too small for us. We have an incredible platform that can really cater for all of it.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you want to have one person or perhaps even an organisation that s listening to this interview, who would it be?JAMES HEDLEY: I think anybody that s organising an event, we have an incredible platform that is, entirely self-managed. So if you re a smaller event organiser, if you ve got a party or a cooking show or a small conference, Quicket is absolutely is ideal for you, but we also have a lot of really powerful features that can work for even the biggest event organisers. So I d want any event organiser to get in touch with us and we can have a conversation around how we can help them.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: On the topic of that conversation, how do we reach you? Is there a website or a LinkedIn page that we have, that you perhaps have? How do you, how do we start that conversation with you?JAMES HEDLEY: I think the best way is to just send me an email personally. I m [email&#160;protected] that simple.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Now I m sure you re aware that there s a lot of accelerator programmes out there. What attracted you to the Grindstone Accelerator programme?JAMES HEDLEY: Grindstone s got a really great reputation and a proven track record. Their founders Andrea, Keet and Eben have personally been involved in some of South Africa s biggest tech success stories and we really like working with them. They re great people and we really admire their passion for building businesses and it s already become clear that Quicket stands to benefit tremendously from the training and expertise that comes through Grindstone.So I think it s definitely the leading programme in South Africa and I would highly recommend it to anyone with a scaleable business concept that they want to take it to the next level.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I m sure over the years you ve had numerous advice offered to you as an entrepreneur. If you had to offer one piece of advice to entrepreneurs out there, what would it be?JAMES HEDLEY: Sure, the best advice I could offer anyone is your idea will never be perfect. The most important thing is that you actually just get started with it but it s only once you get going that you really understand what business you re in and what you re trying to achieve and that s where you learn the lessons you need to become a truly successful entrepreneur. So from me the advice I give is take that first step, get going, learn the lessons you need and build a great business eventually.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Alright James, we ll have to leave it there. Thank you so much for your time.JAMES HEDLEY: Sure.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was James Hedley, he s the director at Quicket.