The non-bank financial institution (NBFIs) sector, referred to as the alternative finance sector, is largely dependent on the institutional market for funding in most markets around the world. By regulation, NBFIs in most markets are prohibited from gathering deposits, or restricted from transactional banking services which are critical to attract deposits. Banks themselves are also mostly reluctant to lend to NBFIs, given the potential long-term competitive threat. For example, Capitec of South Africa and Equity Bank of Kenya, each of which are now very much fully-fledged banks, have their roots as NBFIs. In South Africa, the deepest and broadest market in Africa, NBFIs have been largely focused on borrowing from the domestic market. This is not without its risks, given for example the significant reversal in domestic investor sentiment to the sector following the collapse of African Bank in August 2014. African Bank s largest peer, Capitec was less affected, given its successful deposit mobilising strategy. While no NBFI went under as a result of a drying up of funding following African Bank s collapse, anecdotally, many CFOs and Treasurers in the sector reported a scrambling for alternative funding, higher costs, and an enforced slow-down in asset growth. Foreign NBFIs with JSE-listed bonds, such as Trustco and Letshego, were also impacted. In 2015 and 2016, Namibian financial services group Trustco turned its funding activities to the global institutional market, and completed several successful transactions, culminating in November 2016 with R450m financing package arranged by Verdant Capital. Trustco also acquired Fides Bank, now Trustco Bank, bringing a deposit-taking entity into the group. This is another example of NBFIs transitioning over time to become a bank. The Namibian dollar has been pegged one-to-one to the South African Rand since Namibia s independence in 1990 and as such Namibia s financial market is often seen as an adjunct to its much larger neighbour. Trustco, following a route trodden by many similar institutions in Africa, was successful in tapping an investor audience of specialist Financial Inclusion funds. These funds, mainly located in North America and Western Europe, target investments in emerging/developing markets financial institutions, especially those with a financial inclusion agenda. This may mean NBFIs, or in fact banks with a broader focus than most commercial banks, for example SME-lending or bottom of the pyramid lending. The Financial Inclusion investor community grew out of the microfinance world over the last 10 years while NBFIs lending to micro-enterprises is still an important focus these investors now support a much broader range of entities, for example those involved in SME-lending, leasing, invoice discounting, education lending, mortgage-lending and FinTech. New focus segments arise all the time. For example, a segment that came into vogue last year is financing for small business and homeowners for distributed renewable energy. Examples of specialist institutions in South Africa providing end-market funding in this space include GreenFin and New Southern Energy.Depending on the precise classification, Verdant Capital estimates the assets under management of the Financial Inclusion investor base to be around $15bn, of which about 20% is earmarked for Africa. In addition, this sector continues to be strongly supported by development finance institutions, the development arms of rich world governments. One of the factors that has helped develop this market is the growth in foreign exchange hedging. Traditionally, in Africa hedging was available only for the South African rand, but now 3-5 year hedges are available for the currencies of most of the large and medium size economies in Africa. The hedging market is a critical risk mitigant for NBFIs lending mainly in local currency but borrowing from international funds.FinTech has enabled NBFIs to originate new types of loans to unbanked customers, typically at much smaller unit sizes, but at a manageable operating cost. Examples of this include mobile lending products brought to market by the likes of JUMO World or Getbucks. However, asset growth is only one side of the coin and these entities need to originate funding in order to fulfil customer demand for loans. Profitability in the South African NBFI sector is impacted by rate caps as well as the high level of consumer indebtedness. However, many NBFIs in South Africa have carved-out profitable niches in enterprise lending which are unaffected by consumer indebtedness and fall outside the scope of rate caps. For example, Retail Capital, which brought the merchant credit advance business model to South Africa. South African NBFIs can and do tap the Financial Inclusion investor base. Including this investor base in an overall funding strategy can help mitigate risks related to being dependent on domestic funds, such as materialised following collapse of African Bank.What does 2017 hold for this sector? One factor is certainly the US dollar rate curve, which has risen markedly following the election of Donald Trump and consequent changes in expectations for macro-economic policy in that market. In the evermore connected global financial system, this will have a knock-on impact on funding costs across the board, as well as on exchange rates. Another factor is the possible spread of rate caps to other African markets, as a result of political pressure, such as were controversially re-introduced in Kenya in September last year. However, this trend may not be a one-way bet; many market watchers expect Kenya to remove its rate caps following its presidential elections in August this year. Higenbottam is the managing director of Verdant Capital.This article first appeared in DealMakers, SA s quarterly M&amp;A publication.