NASTASSIA ARENDSE: The Grindstone Accelerator is a structured entrepreneurship development programme that assists high growth innovation driven companies to become sustainable and fundable. Throughout this series we ll be sitting down with each of the 10 companies selected for the programme. Today we have Adam Shapiro who s the director at Autopilot. Adam, thank you so much for your time.ADAM SHAPIRO: Pleasure, and thank you for having me on your show.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So, tell us about the story of your company. How did it all come together?ADAM SHAPIRO: My partner, Hannes Bantjes and I started our first company Pilotfish Digital in 2001. Pilotfish would customise custom systems for clients, these would range from e-commerce websites to custom developed systems for clients ranging from the likes of Deloitte. We did quite a bit of government work and essentially we found that a lot of the work was process driven, people wanted more productivity tools and we thought instead of reinventing the wheel, let s build a system that can handle that. Hence the birth of Autopilot in 2013.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So what exactly does the company do?ADAM SHAPIRO: Autopilot has been designed to allow businesses to automate their processes quickly and efficiently. That means no more wandering around with a piece of paper, or e-mailing someone and hoping that they get back to you. Requests are sent through the system in a standardised and structured way. So this enables our users to save time and paper, increase control and productivity of their business, eliminates the loss of documents and reduces the amount of e-mails and the number of important e-mails that get lost in amongst all the reams of spam that we get.So, essentially the system allows users to send electronic forms from one person to another in a controlled manner. It also give owners of businesses a bird s eye view as to what s happening within their business and because we re cloud based, you can see it from your mobile phone, from your tablet, from your PC, so whether you re at your desk or at the airport, you still have a view of what s going on within your business.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: A lot of entrepreneurs will tell you from the beginning they start doing research in their industry and where they see it going. In particular for you, where do you see your industry going in the next few years?ADAM SHAPIRO: We believe we are ideally poised within the industry &#8211; terms like automation, productivity, the cloud, of which Autopilot obviously is a cloud system and green business, are all terms that are becoming more and more relevant nowadays. So we re excited about the future and hoping to expand our business in that regard.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I think social media has become so indispensable, basically various forms of media that we use. If you could have one person in a particular job title or organisation listening to this interview, who would it be and why?ADAM SHAPIRO: Generally if it s a business up to 100 users, it s that owner of that business, he or she is just so busy, they ve got millions of requests coming through, landing on their tables, on their machine from HR, from IT, from whatever department, from customers and we are able to collate all those requirements in one bird s eye view, which makes it ideal for a business owner of up to 100 users. But failing that the financial director of a large organisation would see the value in Autopilot.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: And for those who are also listening outside of a financial director, what s the specific need that the listeners can assist you with at this particular moment when you re looking at your business?ADAM SHAPIRO: The needs really, clients are interested and improving productivity. Ideal companies are between 30 users up to 300 users and anyone who is looking to increase their productivity or increase the auditability of their business, I think we should be talking to them. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: And from your perspective how do we start the conversation with you? Do we direct people to your website? Is there a LinkedIn account that you have? How do people make contact?ADAM SHAPIRO: We re a proudly South African company, so you would speak to us in person, either on the phone or we would come and see you. We re based in Durban and in Cape Town and that s a big differentiator for us, it s not an overseas company who doesn t understand the South Africa landscape. So people can pop onto out website, autopilot.co.za or email me personally [email&#160;protected] . We re obviously also on Twitter autopilot_app, Facebook Autopilot Workflows and I m available on LinkedIn as well.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I m sure you re aware that there s a lot of accelerator programmes out there that one can get involved in. What in particular interested you about the Grindstone Accelerator programme?ADAM SHAPIRO: Grindstone are front of mind in this space. Keet and Andre are so active at all the events and so on. So I d heard their names long before I d actually met them and our biggest measure is from previous participants on the programme. We d spoken to quite a few, we did our research and that s the measure, someone s been on a programme for a year and they re still recommending them, then that s good enough for us, so we ve been blown away by the level of support that we ve got and we re really enjoying the ride, we re half way through our programme and getting a lot of value from it.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Looking back at your experiences between you and your partner, if you had one piece of advice for other entrepreneurs, what would it be?ADAM SHAPIRO: Right up front is choosing the right partner and I m really glad that I ve done that, but expect a radical lifestyle change. Don t expect for it to be like a job, because it s not, it s all-consuming, it s more of a rollercoaster ride than a job, but it is an amazing ride. The other thing is to look for &#8211; there s so many more support groups out there is you like, Fellow entrepreneurs, I m a member of the Entrepreneurs Organisation (EO) which has provided fantastic support and networks for me, but a lot of meet-ups nowadays which they didn t have certainly when we started out original business in 2001.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Well Adam, thank you so much for your time.ADAM SHAPIRO: Thank you so much, I really appreciate it.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Great, that was Adam Shapiro, he is the Director at Autopilot.