When Poland-focused property company Echo Polska Properties (EPP) listed on the JSE in September last year, investors probably overlooked it for larger counters already on the local bourse.EPP s JSE-debut came weeks after the listing of offshore counters Hammerson Properties and Globe Trade Centre at a time when concerns grew in the asset management industry about the limited investor pool of capital to support the flurry of new listings.Also, EPP listed when the investor sentiment towards offshore companies turned bearish given the surprise Brexit vote in June and strength of the rand, putting offshore counters on the back foot.These factors have seen EPP s share price shed 21% since listing.&nbsp;This is something EPP CEO Hadley Dean admits is a problem. I don t think we have done a good job in articulating our strategy to investors. We are trying to fix this as we have ramped up our investor relations and this has helped. EPP in which bellwether Redefine Properties holds a 44.9% stake, marking its foray into Poland has a low free float (number of shares held by the public) of about 20%, which Dean says is part of the reason for the stock s sell down. The plan is to raise the free float to 30% which will boost liquidity.To improve investor sentiment towards the company, property investments will now be repositioned towards Poland s retail market.EPP owns a property portfolio valued at 1.6 billion comprising of 15 shopping centres and nine office properties in boroughs such as Warsaw, Krak w, Szczecin, Kielce, K odzko, Zamo and W oc awek. By value, 72% of its property portfolio makes up of retail properties and 28% are office properties.EPP s long-term plan is to reduce exposure to office properties and invest in shopping centres that are dominant and in proximity to train lines that help feed foot traffic to its centres.Investment analyst at Metope Investment Managers Kelly Hook says although EPP s office properties are of high quality, there s a risk of oversupply in the market and limited rental growth. The retail assets are where EPP is really able to add value through active asset management, improving tenant mix and small extensions, and thus the shift to a greater retail focus is positive, says Hook.EPP has identified three properties to sell this year and expects to receive 50 million from the sale. The proceeds will be used to partly fund its on-going retail projects, including two major retail developments in northern Warsaw. Existing shopping centres will be refurbished to add more fashion retailers, entertainment arcades and food courts.ClucasGray portfolio manager Brendon Hubbard says EPP offers a compelling investment story given the quality of its retail assets. He says EPP s stock is attractively priced at a forward dividend yield of 8% (in euros), with growing dividends of 10% per annum. Hubbard values the stock at R22.30 from the trading price of R18.50 at the time of writing.Hook says that the value of EPP s stock depends on whether investors are of the view that the rand won t be strengthening further from current levels. [However] EPP provides a vehicle for investment into the Central and Eastern European region which offers a higher euro-yield and a lower premium to net asset value [of 11%] than its peers. 