Stocks climbed and the dollar steadied as the selloff stemming from U.S. policy uncertainty abated. The rand tumbled on the prospect of South Africa s President Jacob Zuma firing his finance minister.European equities rose as investor bullishness emerged intact after the failure of U.S. President Donald Trump s health-care bill and S&amp;P 500 futures steadied. The rand s rally this year continued to falter as Zuma was said to tell senior leaders of the South African Communist Party that he plans to fire Pravin Gordhan. Oil climbed even amid the prospect of a further increase in record U.S. crude stockpiles.The resumption of demand for risk assets signals investors are still pinning hopes on Trump s ability to push through tax cuts and regulatory changes, pledges that helped trigger a reflationary upswing in global markets after his election. Bond and FX market participants reaction to the failure of the health-care bill has been to re-price Treasuries and the dollar under the assumption that President Trump has lost a little of his shine, Kit Juckes, a London-based global strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a note. Equity market participants have taken a look at the lower yields and weaker dollar and decided that since absurdly low rates are the elixir that the equity bull market lives on, they might as buy the dip yet again. Here are this week s key events:The start of two years of Brexit negotiations will be formally triggered by a letter from Theresa May, U.K. prime minister, on Wednesday that will kick off two years of negotiations to withdraw from the European Union.Proposals to design and build Trump s promised 2,000-mile border wall between the U.S. and Mexico are due March 29. Hungary, Mexico, South Africa and Thailand are among countries setting interest rates.Samsung Electronics Co. will introduce its Galaxy S8 smartphone, the company s first new mobile phone since the debacle with the Note 7 battery fires that led to its recall.Here are the main moves in markets:CurrenciesThe rand slid 1.9 percent to 12.9826 against the dollar at 7:23 a.m. in New York following Monday s 2.5 percent decline. Prior to this drop, the currency had gained 9.5 percent year-to-date, making it a top emerging-market performer. The British pound and euro were little changed against the dollar The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index rose 0.1 percent after dropping 0.4 percent Monday.StocksThe Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.2 percent, led by auto and media companies. Futures on the S&amp;P 500 was little changed. The underlying gauge dropped 0.1 percent Monday, paring a loss of as much as 0.9 percent.BondsYields on 10-year Treasuries fell one basis point to 2.37 percent after falling three basis points on Monday. European bonds mostly rose, with 10-year German yields falling two basis points to 0.38 percent.CommoditiesGold little changed at $1,254.39 an ounce after rising 0.9 percent Monday. West Texas Intermediate crude rose 0.4 percent at $48.12 per barrel following a 0.5 percent drop the previous day.AsiaThe Topix Index climbed 1.3 percent, recovering after Monday s tumble. Australia s S&amp;P/ASX 200 Index also rose 1.3 percent, Hong Kong s Hang Seng Index gained 0.5 percent and Singapore s Straits Times Index was up 0.7 percent.