Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.HealthcareThe White House and House conservatives are in talks about last-minute changes to the health-care bill, with the chair of the House Freedom Caucus saying it was too early to tell if a deal could be reached today. The move to &#8220;repeal and replace&#8221; Obamacare, which is opposed by all Democrats in Congress, still faces opposition from some Republicans who feel it does not go far enough.Open for businessParliament in the UK will return to work after Wednesday&#8217;s terror attack which left four dead and 29 injured. Prime Minister Theresa May said the attack, which came a year to the day after the deadly bombings in Brussels, was &#8220;sick and depraved.&#8221; Police, who have made seven arrests, said the attacker acted alone and was inspired by international terrorism.Last TLTROThis morning, the European Central Bank offers its last Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operation, which gives banks four-year loans at zero percent interest. Economist estimates for the size of the uptake by banks vary hugely, from 30 billion euros ($32 billion) to as high as 750 billion euros, with the amount due to be published after 6:30am Eastern Time. The size of the update will be viewed as a gauge of lenders&#8217; thinking as pressure mounts on the central bank to reduce its accommodative monetary stance. Markets recoverOvernight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.1%, while Japan&#8217;s Topix index closed broadly unchanged. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.1% higher at 5:26am ET as increases in miners were offset by losses in food and beverage companies. US stock market futures pointed to a gain at the open. North KoreaUS relations with North Korea, which had already been under pressure, may be about to take another turn for the worse. Investigators looking into the theft of $81 million from the Bangladesh central bank account at the New York Fed are checking for links to North Korea as the hack used to access the funds was similar to one used previously by the isolated state. Richard Ledgett, deputy director of the National Security Agency, said it is &#8220;a big deal&#8221; if nation states are robbing banks. 2017 Bloomberg