The unification powers of President Jacob Zuma appear to be undiminished following his latest scheme to depose the finance minister and his deputy. The problem for Zuma, is that he has appeared to unify disparate parts of society against his proposed decision and more importantly, against his continued tenure as president. The professional esteem in which Business Leadership South Africa (BLSA) hold Pravin Gordhan and the rest of his team at the National Treasury came through in the following statement: It is not for business to dictate to the president whom he should appoint as finance minister. Nevertheless, this finance minister and his team at National Treasury have provided exemplary leadership following the after-shocks of December 2015. Treasury has upheld disciplined and prudent fiscal policy. It has worked with other social actors to uphold South Africa s credit rating and, as a consequence, has ensured the ongoing viability of our social expenditure upon which so many South Africans rely. Then, after questioning whether the president was upholding the letter and spirit of the Constitution, BLSA wrote: The president has also failed to provide policy clarity, certainty and effective administration. These failures will ramp up the costs and risks of investing in South Africa. They will worsen South Africa s abysmal economic performance of the last seven years. They will render any notion of radical economic transformation still born. They will continue to impoverish the most vulnerable in our society.&#8221;The membership of BLSA urgently calls on the president to demonstrate that he acts in the national interest. His powers are not without responsibility. He has a duty to take the nation into his confidence about critical changes to his Cabinet, and in particular changes to a well-functioning ministry. He has a duty to place the interests of South Africa and all its citizens above those of any other. To the extent that you can get capitalists and communists to sing off the same hymn sheet, the South African Communist Party held a briefing on Thursday to which we attach some of the greatest hits from answers Deputy Secretary General Solly Mapaila gave to journalists after the briefing: SACP Deputy General Secretary Solly MapailaOn what happened at the meeting between the ANC and the SACP on Monday: The intelligence report was part of the reason given why this Comrade (Gordhan) was brought back from outside, and we objected to it and we are unhappy about it. We objected to the removal of the comrade and his designated replacement. On the contents of the intelligence report that the president cited as the reason to fire Pravin and Mcebisi: This is one minister that is running a clean administration. And a key pillar of the National Democratic Revolution is good governance. Now when a member is an excellent governor, why do you remove him? Why does it even arise that you should remove him? It s because his removal has to do with some shoddy intelligence report that builds suspicion. For all god s sake people, who on earth can believe that a man who participated in the highest form of the revolution could simply sell his own country? These comrades have served our movement with absolute distinction. They deserve our support. And they should not be harassed. That is our view. Listen to Solly Mapaila on why National Treasury must be &#8220;handled with care&#8221; and protected from the &#8220;vultures and parasites&#8221;:Not to be outdone, the Democratic Alliance promised to table yet another motion of no confidence in Jacob Zuma. Said party leader Mmusi Maimane: The Democratic Alliance (DA) has today taken a decision to table a Motion of No Confidence in President Jacob Zuma in terms of Section 102 of the Constitution following his now confirmed intention to fire finance minister, Pravin Gordhan, and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. I have therefore written to the Speaker of the National Assembly, Ms Baleka Mbete, in this regard, indicating our intention to have the motion debated and voted on by Parliament once it is back in session.At a time when nine million South Africans are without work and our fragile economy requires leadership and clear policy direction, President Zuma continues to play &#8216;Russian Roulette&#8217; with our economy and the future of our country.&#8221;Since his reckless and irrational decision to recall Gordhan, and his deputy from an international roadshow to boost investment, growth and job creation in South Africa, the gains made by Gordhan and Jonas to restore credibility in our economy following the disastrous firing of former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene, 15 months ago, have all but been eviscerated. The Economic Freedom Fighters, while agreeing to support the DA in its motion of no confidence, took a slightly different tack, by approaching the Constitutional Court on Thursday to apply for the Court to intervene in the matter of holding the President to account. (Listen to the CIC for yourself.)