Things moved rapidly over the weekend in connection with the serious matter of being able to pay 17 million social grants come April 1. But the main takeaway was that the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) has yet to sign and seal the deal that will allow CPS to carry on making the payments. On Saturday, Director General in the Department of Social Development Zane Dangor tended his resignation as he was dissatisfied with the legal basis on which the new contract being negotiated with Cash Paymaster Services was being undertaken by Sassa and the department. Dangor had been previously described by parliament&#8217;s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) as a competent and hardworking public official. On Sunday, at a briefing held by Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini to reassure everyone that everything was in order, the press conference descended into a farce when the minister refused to tell the gathered media how the payments were going to be made at the end of the month. Dlamini also refused to answer questions on Dangor&#8217;s resignation or allegations she had suspended Sassa&#8217;s CEO because he was attempting to negotiate with the Post Office regarding the provision of grant payments behind her back.Sassa announced on Friday that it had reached an agreement with CPS on the terms of a new agreement. But at the briefing on Sunday it was revealed that this had not been signed and sealed yet. From inquiries made with Sassa officials after the briefing, Moneyweb understands that an agreement with CPS has been reached &#8220;in principle&#8221;. It must now follow procurement policy before the government can sign and enact the contract. And this is going to be the tricky part. The reason National Treasury has belatedly been included in deliberations is because it is the government department that stipulates the rules in which public procurement is undertaken. We understand that minister Dlamini wanted elements of the public procurement policy to be waived in order to sign the new deal with CPS. But National Treasury has declined to do so given the fact that the Constitutional Court is overseeing the tender process as part of its role in declaring the previous contract with CPS invalid. The department will return to the Constitutional Court on March 15 to see whether it must subject the new deal to the scrutiny of the court. In summary, South Africans learnt nothing new yesterday. How and when Sassa will eventually transition the payment of grants away from CPS is anybody&#8217;s guess. Including the ministers. 