Speculation that President Jacob Zuma may be set to move Pravin Gordhan from the finance ministry has caused a wave of disquiet in markets over the last two days. The rand fell from R12.33 to the dollar to over R13 to the dollar before resettling, and the yield on 10-year government bonds widened by over 60 basis points.However, the local equity market was largely unmoved. Although it weakened marginally on Monday, the FTSE/JSE All Share Index finished 1.13% higher on Tuesday.Almost across the board, the market was up. The Industrial 25 Index gained 1.12% and Resources were 2.45% higher. Even the mid- and small-cap indices gained 0.60% and 0.55% respectively.Peter Brooke, the head of Old Mutual&#8217;s MacroSolutions boutique said that this should not be surprising. The reason for little reaction from the JSE to the speculation around the future of the finance minister is that it is very geared towards a weaker rand, Brooke said.Efficient Group chief economist Dawie Roodt agreed. Most of the big companies listed in South Africa are international companies or commodity companies, and a weaker currency is good for them, he pointed out. At the same time, we also saw commodity prices going up a bit. However, there were areas of the market that did reflect South African-specific returns. The financials index was flat, with the banks index slightly negative. The SA Listed Property Index also retreated. Financials, listed property, bonds and the rand are the tell-tale signs of risk, rather than the All-share Index, Brooke noted.Roodt said that because financial companies would be most affected by a change in the status quo, they would have seen some selling. The only companies under a little pressure are those that will be affected by local economic conditions such as changes in interest rates, he said. Those are the financial companies, and they react in much the same way as bonds and the currency. He added that what is happening to bonds is really most important, and higher yields tell a story of these assets under coming selling pressure. Ironically, that&#8217;s why Gordhan was in London to encourage investors to buy exactly those instruments, said Roodt. His return is now leading people to sell them. 