NASTASSIA ARENDSE: The Grindstone Accelerator is a structured entrepreneurship development programme that assists high-growth, innovation-driven companies to become sustainable and fundable. Throughout this series we ll be sitting down with each of the ten companies selected for the programme. Today we have Andy Skinstad, he s the creative CEO of Fonk Cape Town. Andy, thank you so much for your time. ANDY SKINSTAD: Thanks for having us. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Tell us a little bit about your story, how did your company come together? ANDY SKINSTAD: On a macro level a tiny fraction of the best ideas and potential solutions get to see the light of day and make an impact. We think this is a tragedy, so we built a team and a company designed to increase an idea s chance of survival. On a micro level it was probably more of a stroke of luck, I went to a tech conference in Cape Town where I heard an inspirational talk by one of our Dutch founders, Eric Jan Bijvank, I bought him a beer afterwards and a few months later I had complete autonomy to build a team and create an environment to attract the right clients to use digital innovation to solve real world problems.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What exactly does the company do?ANDY SKINSTAD: We specialiase in touch technology, which is essentially the building of applications for smartphones, tablets and large format interactive touchscreens. We re working with strategists, multi-discipline designers and developers, all from quite disparate backgrounds. We specialise in helping both corporates and start-ups take their ideas from napkin to real traction in the marketplace. In the business of product development there are typically three stages of a product s life: The first being idea birth and validation, the second being build, test and launch, and the third is maintenance, improvement and growth. We ideally get involved right from the beginning, the earlier the better. We have a refined and strong methodology called Rock Paper Scissors that takes about four to six weeks to go through with our clients and it costs between R80 000 and R150 000 and at the end of that process they are equipped with a highly considered prototype with competitive positioning, market validation and a defined path to success and how much it will cost to get there.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In the industry that you are in, there is so much happening in the tech space, in the digital space, where do you see it going in the next few years?ANDY SKINSTAD: We re very excited, we re almost 90% focused on building mobile tech products at the moment and smartphone users across all income brackets in South Africa and Africa in general is increasing rapidly. So that coupled with rapidly increasing connectivity and data is an incredible powerful tool for solving real-life problems that the rest of the world doesn t even know about yet. This is going to lead to some amazing tech innovations in the near future but here s the trick, for these ideas to actually see the light of day there needs to be a conduit between the raw understanding of the problem at grassroots level and someone having their finger on the pulse with all the technical possibilities that are available. This is where Fonk comes to the party, we are that link.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you could have one person or organisation that should be listening to this interview, who would that be?ANDY SKINSTAD: It s a tricky one, within corporate it would be kind of a love child between the CTO and the head of marketing, and in many cases corporates have a head of innovation, so it would be this person but essentially the person who believes in the power of internal innovation and ideas but also has the authority and vision to actually make those ideas happen. In the start-up world it seems to be the owner and the founder, and we prefer to work with people who are specialists in their field looking to solve quite specific problems that they have. On top of both of those we are also very interested in talking to the challenger brands, the companies that are looking to disrupt industries, the top 2.5% on that innovation curve.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Based on what we re hearing right now and for the listeners who are hearing this interview, how do they interact with you and start that conversation with you going forward in terms of perhaps even talking business.ANDY SKINSTAD: We d love to hear from anyone, we are very reachable, we ve got an e-mail address [email&#160;protected] or you can e-mail me personally [email&#160;protected] and that s always a great way to start a conversation with us and we ve got a lot of information we can send back to you about our process, our methodology, our credentials and how we like to go about things. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of the accelerator programmes that are out there, so many of them are up and running, what attracted you to the Grindstone Accelerator?ANDY SKINSTAD: Funnily enough we didn t see Grindstone as an accelerator programme per se, they are completely different to various programmes out there, they ve got unbelievable people and they are helping us with very specific problems and their potential for growth and their long-term interest in us is what really attracted us to partnering with them.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you had one piece of advice for other entrepreneurs out there what would that be?ANDY SKINSTAD: The only piece of advice that I would be able to give is from experience and I would say place a lot more emphasis on your people, their hard work and their loyalty and their insight is far too often underestimated.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Andy, we ll have to leave it there, thank you so much for your time.ANDY SKINSTAD: Thank you very much, Nastassia, I really appreciate it.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Andy Skinstad, he s the creative CEO of Fonk Cape Town.