Yields on South African government bonds jumped over 50 basis points early this morning on news that President Jacob Zuma had reshuffled his cabinet. Most significantly Zuma replaced the finance minister and deputy finance minister, appointing Malusi Gigaba and Sfiso Buthelezi to take over from Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas. The yield on 10-year government bonds was at 8.505% before the move, but spiked to 9.060%. At the time of writing, yields had come off slightly to 8.885%. There was a similarly sharp move in three-year and ten-year notes. The yields on three-year South African government bonds moved from 7.520% to 8.065%, while five-year yields rose from 7.660% to 8.175%. Although these moves are significant in such a short space of time, they are not nearly as large as those seen in December 2015 when Zuma replaced Nhlanhla Nene with the unknown Des van Rooyen. There the weekly move in yields was 172 basis points. The primary reason for this appears to be that markets had already priced in a significant degree of risk. The cabinet reshuffle had become expected and when markets already anticipate an outcome, the response is more muted than when a move like this comes as a surprise. Markets are also watching to see whether the changes will cause any significant changes in policy. Chief economist at Investment Solutions, Lesiba Mothata, said that it&#8217;s important at a time like this that some reassurance is provided by state institutions. Investor confidence has been substantially dented by the rapid changes that have taken place at National Treasury, Mothata said. Given such volatility and uncertainty, the new authorities need to communicate that South African institutions remain intact. The independence of the South African Reserve Bank and the judiciary needs to be affirmed, he added. They will also need to demonstrate that fiscal policy will not take a materially different direction from what has been established since 1994. The biggest fear held by investors is whether more populist fiscal policies will be embraced or not. The CEO Initiative said in a statement that the risks created to South Africa&#8217;s economy by a loss of credibility amongst its important institutions is significant. The speculation relating to the fate of the minister of finance that has reigned since the start of this week and this morning&#8217;s announcement have created unnecessary instability at one of our country s key institutions and caused immense uncertainty among international investors, it noted. South Africa is an emerging economy in a global community, in need of capital from all corners of the world. If investors lose faith and trust in our economy, all citizens not just big business pay the price for this, in the form of higher inflation, decreased buying power as well as decimated savings, pensions and investments, it added. A lack of investment also means that growth and much-needed job-creation will be stifled. The risk of South Africa&#8217;s sovereign debt rating being downgraded is also now heightened. Rating agencies have warned repeatedly of the likelihood of downgrading South Africa to non-investment grade should the volatility of the political environment deepen, Mothata said. Although much of the decision will be heavily dependent on what the new minister of finance says about fiscal policy and its trajectory, markets are likely to fully price South African debt as junk. After much positive ground gained last year under the leadership of Pravin Gordhan &#8211; especially after the relentless effort by business, labour and government, which made such a positive contribution &#8211; that work could easily be wiped out should the new authorities exhibit a major deviation from the policy construct put forward at the February 2017/18 National Budget, he concluded.