Ratings Afrika analysed the recently-published audited financial statements (for the year ended June 30 2016) of all eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa, and scored each with regard to financial stability. Moneyweb will publish its analysis of each of the metros in the coming days. Read Ratings Afrika s findings on Joburg, Cape Town, Tshwane, eThekwini and Ekurhuleni.The latest Municipal Financial Sustainability Index (MFSI) from Ratings Afrika, based on the financial results for June 2016, reveals mixed results for the eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa.The MFSI is a scoring model that evaluates the operating performance, liabilities management, budget practices and liquidity position of a municipality and scores these components out of 100.Mangaung reflects a very weak financial profile and it continues to decline. Its financial stability score of only 25 out of 100 is the second lowest of all the metros and decidedly lower than its score of 38 in 2015. This very low score indicates deep-set financial trouble, which creates enormous challenges for the management and political leadership.Mangaung s problems stem largely from its deteriorating operating performance over the last two years. The metro realised operating deficits (if the capital grants received from government earmarked for infrastructure development are excluded from income) of R766 million in 2016 and R472 million in 2015. The operating surplus in 2014 was R182 million. These deficits reflect a deterioration in its recent budgeting practices and a lapse in financial discipline that allowed operating expenditures to exceed its income.To rectify the situation Mangaung will have to cut its operating costs, which would probably have a negative impact on service delivery. The deficits might also encourage the administration to increase rates and tariffs to generate more income. This could however make the cost of its municipal services significantly less affordable, leading to an adverse effect on its ability to collect the revenue.Mangaung has increased its spending on maintenance over the last few years, after a number of years of very low spending. It is uncertain if the current level of spending is sufficient to catch up on the deferred maintenance of prior years.The operating deficits also impact negatively on Mangaung s liquidity position, which became negative in 2016. The liquidity shortfall, measured by the excess of its current liabilities over its current assets, was R103 million at the end of fiscal 2016. Apart from the operating deficits, the low revenue collection also contributes to its weak liquidity position. At the current revenue collection rate of only 90%, Mangaung is forfeiting some R400 million of cash per annum that is not being collected. The weak revenue collections over a number of years have caused the accumulation of bad debts (that are likely to be written off) to grow to R2.4 billion. The concern around this weak liquidity position is the potential negative impact it might have on its service delivery over the short to medium term.In spite of its liquidity position, Mangaung spent large amounts, relative to its size, on infrastructure development during the past year. Its capital spending has increased from R1.2 billion in 2014, to R1.5 billion in 2016. This is on average R1 635 per capita per annum, which compares favourably with that of the other metros.However, the level of capital spending over the last three years has forced Mangaung to increase its borrowings from R420 million in 2014, to R1 094 million in 2016. This has raised its debt burden to 38% of the gross operating revenue. Even though this ratio has doubled over the last three years, it came off a low base and its debt burden is still considered to be manageable.The deterioration in the financial profile of Mangaung is of great concern. It could adversely impact its service delivery with negative effects for the Free State Province also.How Mangaung compares:Note: The Financial Stability score is based on the analysis of the financial statements only.Leon Claassen is an analyst at Ratings Afrika.