SIKI MGABADELI: In our Tipping Point feature today we are speaking to the [former] CEO of Thebe Capital, Zukie Siyotula.ZUKIE SIYOTULA: I think it started off by me making the choice to grow into the profession of being a chartered accountant, and the key motivator for me was just my interest in business, having observed that on the JSE most of the CEOs and CFOs were chartered accountants. Going to university I made the choice to go into that profession. That really opened doors for me. That s where it started.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Now, you ve been an executive at Thebe Capital. You ve also been with Shell South Africa, Altech Netstar, Vodacom. Talk us through this journey. What have you learnt?ZUKIE SIYOTULA: My immediate past job was the CEO of Thebe Capital. I was appointed to that role as CEO at the end of 2009. I think a lot of people celebrated my becoming CEO at 29, and it seemed like an overnight success.But it&#8217;s really been a journey of hard work. I had amazing opportunities, having done my articles at a company like South African Breweries, a global company high performance, highly competitive. And that really defined my career and started my journey.Subsequent to that at Old Mutual as well as Barclays Africa, and really had amazing opportunities to not only start up distribution channels, head up and manage a P&amp;L[?] which is really important in building a career, and honing my skills in general management at a very young age. And that prepared me for that role at Thebe Capital.I was quite fortunate as well to have the opportunity to serve on various boards, having my career in predominantly financial services over 12 years of experience in that area, Sitting on boards such as Shell, Vodacom, Altech and other sectors merely opened up my business understanding and I was able to add great value in those different companies in my duties as a director from a corporate governance point of view and also just for my understanding commercially of different areas TUMISANG NDLOVU: Have you always known that you would end up in the field of CAs?ZUKIE SIYOTULA: I think initially as a child my parents would have really liked it if I had wanted to become a doctor, and I adopted that dream of theirs for a while. But it was quite clear to me early on in high school that I was very good with numbers and had quite a knack for business. I was very interested in that and in people you hear about both here and internationally who built amazing businesses. I was really fascinated by that.I think growing up as well I was seen as a natural leader, whether it was among my friends or looking at sports. So I knew that I would have to be interested in leadership and working with people. I&#8217;ve always been very good at building relationships and maintaining them, and translating that into business.So I think a combination of all of that and my personality led me towards the career path that I&#8217;ve had.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Tell us about your current role. You have since left Thebe Capital. What are you up to now?ZUKIE SIYOTULA: I&#8217;m currently focusing on my own business. So I&#8217;m doing advisory work, working with various positions whether it&#8217;s on the strategy side or doing fund-raising and putting together transactions. And I&#8217;m also sitting on a few other boards, really just adding value from a governance perspective.SIKI MGABADELI: That s Zukie Siyotula, former CEO of Thebe Capital.