Gold s enduring a wretched week with the biggest loss since November as investors contend with a stronger dollar and zero in on how many U.S. interest rate increases will follow the first tightening of 2017 that s expected at the Federal Reserve s forthcoming meeting.Bullion for immediate delivery fell as much as 0.4 percent to $1,196.24 an ounce, the lowest since Jan. 31, and was at $1,196.71 at 7:27 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg generic pricing. It s down 3.1 percent this week as 10-year Treasury yields extended gains, making non-interest-bearing assets less attractive. Silver, platinum and palladium have also been battered.Precious metals have been hammered by Fed officials including Chair Janet Yellen talking up the prospect of higher rates when they gather next week. Better-than-expected U.S. private jobs data this week also boosted the dollar, before official payrolls figures are due later Friday. The European Central Bank, meanwhile, has signaled it won t add to stimulus as growth picks up. A hike is priced in, but it s uncertainty about what the Fed will do next that has precious metal bulls sitting on the sidelines for now, Jordan Eliseo, chief economist at gold trader and refiner Australian Bullion Co., said in an email. Unless payrolls are much softer than market expectations, we expect gold will remain under pressure until the Fed meeting. After the Fed raised rates once in 2015 and again in 2016, the pace looks set to quicken this year. The so-called dot plot illustrating policy makers projections suggests three increases in 2017. While economists see non-farm payrolls declining, possibly supporting gold, their projections have underestimated employment growth in February for five years in a row.Former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said the central bank is on good track as it prepares to raise next week and gradually thereafter. Bernanke, whom Yellen succeeded in 2014, also advised investors against being too optimistic about President Donald Trump s plans, according to remarks Thursday. The immediate question now is the climate we may face after the rate hike comes to pass, Barnabas Gan, an economist at Singapore-based Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., wrote in a note dated March 10. While market-watchers will be left wondering when the next rate hike is coming, uncertainty over European elections and a lack of clarity over Trump s policies, may mean the fall in gold is short-lived, he said.In China:Bullion of 99.99 percent purity fell 0.7 percent to 270.32 yuan a gram ($1,216 an ounce) on the Shanghai Gold Exchange. On the Shanghai Futures Exchange, gold for June delivery declined 0.8 percent to 271.05 yuan a gram, while silver dropped 1 percent to 4,030 yuan a kilogram.In other precious metals:Spot silver is down 6 percent this week, heading for the biggest decline since the five days ended Oct. 7. Palladium fell 4 percent this week, while platinum slumped 6.4 percent, the most since November 2015. The World Platinum Investment Council raised its 2017 deficit outlook to 120,000 ounces from 100,000 ounces on a resilient car market. The metal is used in auto-catalysts that help remove pollutants from vehicle exhaust. 2017 Bloomberg L.P