Growth in cumulative headline earnings by South African banks fell to a seven-year low during the 2016 calendar year.An analysis by EY shows total headline earnings by the six major banks &#8211; Barclays Africa, Capitec, FirstRand, Investec, Nedbank and Standard Bank &#8211; grew by 6.6% to R80 billion compared with a growth rate of 16.5% to R70 billion in 2015. We re seeing an environment where banks are expanding their lending, pricing in risk more appropriately and still lending profitably but at a lower growth rate than before, said Andy Bates, Financial Services Africa Leader at EY. Bank earnings growth in relation to GDP growthSource: EY South Africa Banking Results 2016Based on an annual economic growth estimate of 0.6%, the firm found that South African banks earnings were 11x higher than estimated GDP growth. New data from Statistics South Africa, released after EY presented its findings, shows that the economy grew by 0.3% in 2016, down from 1.3% previously. According to EY, each 1% rise in GDP results a 5% increase in headline earnings.Among the factors that weighed on domestic banks in 2016 were multi-year low growth rates in total advances and assets. Asset growth from the bank s rest of Africa operations turned negative for the first time in over 20 years, falling by 10.8% to R265 million.Balance sheet highlightsSource: EY South African Banking Results 2016Bates said the decline in asset growth attributable operations on the continent is not surprising as African lending contracted in 2016, particularly due to exposure to Nigeria and Kenya.The banks which presented financial results for the period ending December 31 2017, said the effects of Nigeria s shrinking oil-based economy and the devaluation of the Nigerian naira as well as interest rate caps in Kenya weighed on their African operations.In spite of slow advances, total revenue increased by 9% to R285 billion. Net interest income rose 15% to R145 billion while non-interest revenue increased 2.5% to R143 billion. Bates said the stable benchmark interest rate of 7% saw banks be more cautious with lending while also providing an opportunity to generate higher returns, especially when compared with peers in the United Kingdom (UK) that are operating in a record-low interest rate environment.Overall return on equity of 16.8%, down from 18.5%, remains strong when compared with banks in the UK and other emerging markets, he said. A 1% increase in the cost of equity to 14.4% is partly responsible for the decline in returns. The credit loss ratio of 0.75% was relatively unchanged from the 0.76% calculated a year earlier.ImpairmentsSource: EY South African Banking Results 2016Bates said the stable credit loss ratio masks the fact that the banks remain exposed to delinquency through their unsecured lending books comprising personal loans, cards, asset finance and retail. The stable level shows that banks have been more judicious with how they lend and have been more focused on secured lending through corporate and investment banking and business banking, he added.Operating expenditure Source: EY South African Banking Results 2016EY said operating expenses were in line with revenue growth, with growth in IT spending outpacing all but depreciation and amortisation. 