A combination of increased disability claims, rand strength and weak investment markets weighed on MMI Holdings interim period.For the six months ended December 31 2016, the insurance group reported a 5% decline in diluted core headline earnings and headline earnings per share to R1.6 billion and 99.6 cents per share respectively.An increase in disability claims, which reflects the stress experienced by workers in a weak economic environment, was also reported by life insurer Liberty. The one particular characteristic that is important to acknowledge is that MMI is a very big player in the disability market &#8211; our market share is probably around 25% to 26%, Nicolaas Kruger, chief executive of MMI, told Moneyweb.He went on to add that the group is managing disability claims actively, ensuring that only valid claims are paid out.At the same time the relative strength of the rand and weak investment market returns contributed in part, to decreases in basic earnings and diluted headline earnings of 34% and 29% to around R1 billion each. The prior period also included gains arising from the technical accounting treatment of policyholder funds holding MMI shares which was not repeated in the past six months, MMI said.The group also reported a R70 million decline in earnings by health operations after the loss of two major clients. Analysts speculate that the unnamed clients moved to Bankmed and Discovery. New business volumes on a present value of premiums basis increased by 2%. However, the value of new business fell by 3% to R292 million. Still, the group maintained the margin at 1.4% of premiums.Among its constituent divisions, its international business benefited from a 20% growth in new business volumes across its rest of Africa operations. Kruger said the group s well-established operations in Namibia, Botswana and Lesotho, in which it enjoys a dominant position, contributed to the increase.Two low-cost micro insurance offerings, developed through the aYo 50-50 joint venture with MTN, gained around 20 000 new customers since being launched in Uganda between late November and January.Kruger said the companies adopted an agile implementation approach, whereby the product will be launched, refined and relaunched with updated features based on customer reactions. It is a very dynamic process to make sure that we are comfortable with the distribution model and the customer value proposition model. Once we are very comfortable with the results, only then will we expand the aYo business into other countries where MTN also has a presence, he said.Aditya Birla Health Insurance, MMI s joint venture with Aditya Birla Financial Services, was launched in India in November and has since acquired more than 96 000 lives. The Indian business is likely to be its largest ongoing investment outside of South Africa in the near future. Kruger said MMI set aside R400 million to set up and ensure that the business is solvent and will continue to invest in it as it grows, adding that the size of the Indian population and low healthcare penetration rate across the market present significant growth opportunities.In its home market, MMI is to expand its client-centric strategy, which includes the Multiply rewards programme, so as to differentiate its client value proposition.The high level of competition in the South African market as well as in other markets where MMI and the likes of Discovery play means that MMI has to work very hard to increase its market share, said Bright Khumalo, a portfolio manager at Vestact. Everyone wants to make sure that they get good clean customers who are going to be active, healthier and going to live longer so that there s a portion of the business where there s no need to pay out insurance.The game is becoming really hard, its either you adapt or die. It seems like MMI is on the right side of adapting. I must say it&#8217;s pretty slow but it s good to see that they are doing something about it, he said.Kruger said that the group is to launch an outcome-based unit trust range, in which clients will be able to select the products best suited to their own investment needs, in March 2017. MMI maintained is interim dividend at 65 cents per share. Listen to MMI Holdings CEO Nicolaas Kruger&#8217;s interview with Siki Mgabadeli on SAfm here.