Asset management firm Sygnia is getting behind db X-trackers (DBX) exchange-traded funds (ETFs) a plan that has been in the making for more than a year through the acquisition of the investment product from Deutsche Group for R325 million.The deal s progress, announced on Thursday, will allow Sygnia a foray into the ETF world from its traditional focus on low-cost unit trusts, umbrella and retirement annuity funds.DBX is an investment company, which manages index-tracking ETFs that are traded on the JSE and offer exposure to multiple assets classes including equities, commodities, bonds and currencies.The ETFs track indexes including the Euro Stoxx 50, FTSE 100, MSCI Japan, MSCI USA and MSCI World indices, offering investors the opportunity to invest in offshore markets without physically taking their rands out of SA.Sygnia s deal is an antithesis to the critical position that its CEO Magda Wierzycka (pictured) held towards ETFs for their high costs relating to administration and asset management fees. The big question is why has Sygnia changed its position towards ETFs. Wierzycka says the DBX deal is an opportunity to expand the firm s investment offering beyond unit trusts. One of our stated intentions is to become the largest provider of index-tracking products in SA. DBX gives us yet another opportunity to shake up the financial services industry by lowering the cost of access to ETFs. To lower costs, Sygnia is planning to integrate the db X-trackers ETFs to its existing funds such as its multi-manager and worldwide flexible fund, of which 25% of its R16.9 billion assets under management are invested in offshore index trackers. As much as we manage index-tracking funds domestically ourselves, the international products are outsourced to BlackRock [a US-based investment management firm]. Now we will be able to bring those products in-house and manage them from SA, enabling us to reduce costs. Sygnia has ambitions of launching global bond and listed property ETFs and smart beta products.The db X-trackers ETFs is a coup for Sygnia as the Germany-head quartered Deutsche Bank has been selling its smaller global assets to pay off fines (running into billions) across the US and UK relating to lax money laundering offences, mis-selling mortgage securities before the 2008 credit crisis, rigging of the London Interbank Offered Rate (known as Libor) and hiding tax liabilitiesDBX, which already boasts 30 000 investors, adds R11.3 billion worth of assets under management [AUM] to Sygnia.Anthony Clark, an analyst at Vunani Securities, says putting the DBX tracker ETFs on Sygnia s investment platforms means that there will be synergistic cross-selling opportunities across the group. DBX is the leading ETF traders and Sygnia is one of the leading index tracking funds in SA. Plugging in an additional R11 billion [DBX s AUM] is good news, he says.Sygnia will fund the acquisition through the combination of a R320 million loan and its existing cash resources. It will further launch a rights offer to pay back the loan. To issue high-priced paper and to buy a DBX asset with a price:earnings multiple of 10 is a strategically smart move, says Clark.The transaction is expected to be effective by August 31 2017, pending the approval of the Financial Services Board.The DBX acquisition is expected to be earnings enhancing for Sygnia, which made a profit after tax of R72 million in the full year 2016. On the other hand, DBX recorded R38 million in profits in its full-year 2016.