South African investors could almost be forgiven for shaking their heads at the close of business on Monday 27 March 2017. They just can t win at the moment.Political risk has once again reared its head with speculation around our finance minister and markets were not quite sure how to react, especially as US markets were already pricing in a drop as they tried to price in the political fallout of a failed US healthcare bill.Invest locally and you have the threat of a ratings downgrade hanging over you. Invest internationally and the strong rand/weak dollar combination makes a mockery of offshore diversification.Locally, a trend that we ve picked up within the industry is that investors are starting to compare their investment returns to a money market yield. They re saying: I could have made more money in the last two years by leaving my money in the bank, than to invest in the markets . Although this is true, these thoughts are driven by emotional human behaviour. Emotional human behaviour is an investor s worst enemy.JRR Tolkien tells us: If more of us valued food and cheer and song above hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world. so let s take that advice.If we had asked you in 2009 which stock would have delivered the best investment return in 2017 out of Facebook, Google (now Alphabet), Apple, Amazon or Domino s Pizza, how many of you would have picked the pizza player?Whether it is sustainable or not is a different story but on paper, Domino s has delivered a whopping 2 000% over that period. This far outpaces its tech rivals who have employed the brightest minds in the world.Tim Richards, in his book Investing in Psychology: The Effects of Behavioural Finance on Investment Choice hits the nail on the head when he says: Remember that the movements of markets are not in your control and resist attempts to create imaginary methods of exerting it. Embrace uncertainty: it s always with us, it s just that we don t always realise it. Remember that the best investors sit on their hands when uncertainty is especially high: sometimes doing nothing is just fine . Everyone and everything is pointing towards a market correction based on overvaluations (US markets). Various measures have been used, including the CAPE Shiller P/E graph (considered one of the most accurate long-term valuation measures of the overall market). It has only been higher two other times 1) Great depression 2) Dot com crash.&nbsp;On the other hand, US earnings growth is recovering. The global market also seems to be recovering led by the commodity recovery. Our job as asset managers is not to time the market, because no one can. If they say they can, they are lying. Our jobs are to work with what we re given (the market) and work around it and eliminate shares that contribute towards overvaluation within the market.The question then is. Can one say the US market is overvalued and in general, what about global markets? Is SA in for a recovery? The simple answer is, no one knows. With the right data and a graph, or collection of graphs, you can justify overvaluation, relative valuation and undervaluation. Depending on what you re looking for, you ll find it.I read a recent tweet from Jon Boorman, a leading technical analyst:If your investment strategy is dependent on the timing and outcome of a healthcare vote, then you don&#39;t have a strategy&mdash; Jon Boorman (@JBoorman) March 23, 2017This has never been more true. Short-term noise must be cancelled and clear goals must be set. If your overall investment portfolio is balanced (exposure to equities, bonds, worldwide regions) then these fears shouldn t keep you up at night.What history has shown us is that humankind is a fascinating species in that we will always strive for more. This hunger sticking with our pizza theme &#8211; have driven innovation and has propelled us to new highs. I cannot see humankind falling into a rut all of a sudden.Moral of the story is that it is a difficult investment period and people need to set clear long-term investment goals and ignore the short-term noise. When looking back in time, has this ever been different? Concluding thought: History does not repeat itself, but it rhymes .In conclusion, I would remind investors of the words of famous investor Peter Lynch:&#8220;Far more money has been lost by investors preparing for corrections, or trying to anticipate corrections, than has been lost in corrections themselves.&#8221;Steinman de Bruyn, Capilis Asset Managers.