Starting with meetings dating back to early 2016, the responding affidavit filed by Cash Paymaster Services&#8217; (CPS) provides a record of the invitations, deadlines, and requests the company made to Sassa to engage on transition arrangements. These were all to no avail until parties finally met for the first time on March 1, exactly one month before the ConCourt deadline.Read Sassa: No deal yetThe complete affidavit can be accessed here, which includes copies of the correspondence between Net1 founder Serge Belamant, Sassa executives and social development minister Bathabile Dlamini in Annexure A.The affidavit describes the timeline of events in the lead up to the current crisis. As far back as May 24 2016, CPS expressed its concern to Sassa over the short time period remaining for a phase-in/phase-out strategy and proposed alternative solutions to Sassa to this end. In the letter addressed to The Executive Manager: Special Projects Sassa, a Miss Mvulane, CPS notes experience has demonstrated that it would take more than a year to replace all the [Sassa] cards in issue&#8221;.The company also laid out the resources needed to re-issue the cards that recipients use to access grants and cautioned Sassa on the enormity and complexity of the transition by stating the following: Our auditors confirmed that this work cost CPS in excess of R1 billion in 2012/13 [the last time card registration and issuance took place]. Sassa should therefore consider both the timing issues as well as the cost it will incur to ensure a smooth takeover that would not result in massive disruptions in the payment process &#8211; another critical element of the Constitutional Court&#8217;s ruling. Belamant concludes the letter with, As time is running out quite rapidly, it is critical for Sassa to decide on the way forward&#8221;.What happened next? Nothing, it seems. Until December 9, 2016, when CPS, which was becoming increasingly concerned with the lack of communication from Sassa, chose to write directly to minister Dlamini.In the letter, which was again signed by Net-1&#8217;s Belamant, all the information that his company had supplied to Sassa s advisory committee was cited, as well as work undertaken with other technology partners, that included the likes of the South African Reserve Bank, Payments Associations of South Africa, Grindrod Bank and Mastercard, to prolong the lifespan of the Sassa cards that were due to expire on April 1, 2017.Belamant, in the letter, then went on to conclude: As a result, we have developed and tested a plan that will ensure continuity but such plan requires your urgent endorsement and commitment.&#8221; At that point, the Net-1 CEO knew the game was up there was no way Sassa was going to be able to develop a system to take the payment of grants in-house. CPS would have to continue rendering assistance beyond the deadline. He, in turn, imposed a deadline of December 19 for the minister to respond in order to timeously implement the provisional arrangement and avoid disruption of the payment of grants. CPS also stated that it would begin dismantling its payment system from January 1, 2017.This deadline came and went.Sassa eventually responded on December 22, 2016, saying that it expressed an intent to engage on probabilities for assistance in the transition of Sassa operations and proposed a first meeting on January 5, 2017. Yes. It seems 17 million social grant recipients the poorest and most vulnerable in our society would have to wait until Sassa executives returned from the Christmas break before any progress could be made on averting the looming disaster.Following more toing and froing, the meeting eventually took place on March 1, 2017. Just one month before the contract is due to expire. 