Nastassia Arendse talks to Paul Kim of PICSA about how he tries to enrich the lives of his employees and helps his workers to make the best of their financial status.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: The Grindstone Accelerator is a structured entrepreneurship development programme that assists high growth innovation driven companies to become sustainable and fundable. Throughout this series we ll be sitting down with each of the 10 companies selected for the programme and today we have Paul Kim who is the CEO of PICSA. Paul, thank you so much for your time.PAUL KIM: Great, thank you for having me.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So tell us a little bit more about your story and the company. How did it all start?PAUL KIM: Great, so our story is a little different from the other companies in the accelerator. I am not the founder. The founder Pieter Wasserfall started the company in early 2012 and back then it wasn t to start a company, it wasn t to better products, it was really borne out of a request by his farm workers to find a long term savings vehicle and so he did some research, he s a qualified actuary and he was unhappy to find that there really wasn t anything that would help someone with a small bit of money to get real returns over the long term. And so he flew up to Johannesburg/Pretoria to have a chat with the FSB and the National Treasury and out of one of those conversations, the idea to use a stokvel in order to aggregate contributions and debt as a single lump sum was borne and so he set up a first stokvel on his family s farm out in Swellendam and they started investing into Satrix.And then from there, it s kind of grown in scope and impact and aspirations. So today we do more than savings. We realised that fairly early on that savings is not an isolated activity. If you aren t able to manage the rest of your financial affairs you re going to be troubled quite quickly and you don t have anything to save. So we do savings, we do loans, we do retail and funeral cover as well as debt counselling. And then in terms of impact, we ve grown our employer and employee base to about 25 employers and over ,500 active savers mostly in the Western Cape. And in terms of aspirations, it started off as a research project, but now it s grown to become a sustainable commercial endeavour, and that s our story today.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of the industry you re in, how competitive is it and what sort of trends are you reading or rather seeing in the next few years?PAUL KIM: The way we look at it is more from the end consumer, what are the trends impacting the end consumer and then kind of working our way from there. So our goal ultimately is to partner with employers to improve their employee s financial wellbeing, so if nothing was wrong or nothing was happening to the employee that really wouldn t be any need for a service like ours.So we look at the employee and we see, recent articles on your website would indicate that inflation is actually growing at a much higher rate than what is publicly stated. Wage and salary growth in real terms is not going to go anywhere, it s not going to increase in the second year for the next couple of years and credit is still a big problem and I really don t see that going away any time soon.What s going to happen is, what we ve seen in the agricultural industry is that financial wellbeing problems are going to spill over into the work place, and on the one hand you, as an employer, you can say, well, that s not my problem, that s the employee s problem and I m not going to do anything about that.But for employers that want the best out of their employees, financial stability impacts the productivity at the workplace so you re going to want to do something about that. We feel that better products are not going to be enough, the analogy that we use is that in terms of fitness, laying down more terms is one thing, and that only really helps with people that kind of have the discipline to get up and go to the gym. You really need trainers that are willing to walk the journey with someone that s wanting to get fit. And so we do the same for someone who wants to improve their financial wellbeing.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If one person had to be listening to this interview or perhaps even an organisation, who would you want it to be?PAUL KIM: We re looking for progressive companies that feel that they want to be a part of their employees lives and that person specific in that organisation that we want to speak to is either the CEO or the head of HR.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of the partnership, I mean you mentioned the founder s story and then you got into the business as well, what do you think in your opinion makes this partnership work between you and the founder and why should people buy into PICSA and believe this story and see the vision and believe in it?PAUL KIM: We ve got five points that we speak about and there are experienced professionals in the company on both the board and the management levels, so we re still relatively young, but this isn t something that s created by students and running wild and hopefully working, we ve got two actuaries, two management accountants, our PTO has done population skills &#8230; across South Africa, so there re some seasoned professionals running the business.Secondly, we are regulated by both the FSB as well as the Credit Provider so we are registered with both regulatory bodies. We ve got a compelling proposition, so we ve yet to come across another company that is willing to go to this amount of effort for the low income employees.Then we are fully transparent about what we do. So we send regular reports to employers about the level of debt that has been dished out, the level of saving, exactly how much we re earning, and our fees across the board, and so this level of transparency for financial services especially on the credit side is not something that anyone really does.And then lastly, in cases of, kind of a hypothetical proposition, we do have traction and client testimonials, we ve got 2 500 active savers and our savings pool is growing month to month and we ve got a large employer base in Gauteng that s committed 2 700 of varying employees that we re on-boarding in the next 6 months.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: How does Moneyweb, or rather the Moneyweb audience help you start a conversation? How do they get hold of you? Website, LinkedIn, perhaps even a YouTube page? How do we find you?PAUL KIM: Our website is www.picsa.com. We really haven t focused on social media as a marketing channel just yet. I mean our farm workers aren t on Twitter. They are on Facebook, but it s not the primary engagement channel for them. So through our website and you ll get all our details over there.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: And I m sure you know there s a lot of accelerator programmes out there. What attracted you to the Grindstone Accelerator?PAUL KIM: Again five things. I think it s the third time they re running it [and] it has had really good success stories over the first two years. We have engaged with some of the start-ups that actually went through the programme.Again they spoke very highly of the programme. It s the right thing for us, we re not at the incubator stage, we ve got revenue, we ve got a growing company and we needed someone that would be able to help us in this next stage of our journey.Then fourthly, the calibre of people driving the programme, Andrea, Keet and Eban and the partners involved, the three or four sessions that we ve had to date have been incredible and we ve really got a lot of value out of those sessions.And lastly, they actually are very pedantic about measuring the outcome. So at the beginning, we started and we did a three-hour questionnaire that measures exactly how the business is doing across many different areas, IP, finance and so on and so forth, and they ll be measuring that again when we finished with accelerator. So that s also quite exciting. It s not just here are the sessions, we re going measure before and we re going to measure after it and we ll show you exactly where we created value.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you had one piece of advice for other entrepreneurs, what would it be?PAUL KIM: I think for me, there s so much right? So I look at this business, I think it s about the people, so finding the right people to work with. And there re three components to that. It s make sure that you ve got a diverse range of background, people and skill sets, but you do want similar work ethos, and you want everyone to have the same vision, and then you work in that team.If you really want to create something big and something new and something that s going to hopefully change the world, you need a team. You re not going to be able to do it by yourself.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: All right then Paul, we ll have to leave it there. Thank you so much for your time.PAUL KIM: Thank you very much.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Paul Kim, he s the CEO of PICSA.