NASTASSIA ARENDSE: The Grindstone Accelerator is a structured entrepreneurship development programme that assists high-growth, innovation-driven companies to become sustainable and fundable. Throughout this series we ll be sitting down with each of the ten companies selected for the programme and today we have Tiaan van der Spuy, the chief executive officer of Leaply. Tiaan, thank you so much for your time. TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: Thank you so much for having me, Nastassia. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So tell us about your story, how did your business come together? TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: Essentially there were three events that took place that led to the idea that eventually evolved into what Leaply is today. The first one was while I was studying, actually halfway through my studies, at a business school in Cape Town. I discovered this scholarship that would have allowed me to go and study overseas for exactly the same amount of money as studying here in South Africa. But because it was sort of halfway through my studies it was too late to apply. So the question that I had in my mind was why do certain people know about opportunities like these, why do some people know that they can go and study overseas and others just don t. And what would life have looked like if I had gone overseas, what would my network have looked like? So that was the first event. The second event was after my studies, starting to look for work. Now we all know that looking for work sucks. It s a time consuming, tedious and very discouraging process. It s time consuming because you have hundreds of different job sites, they ve got thousands of listings, from a job title you need to gauge whether it s something that you d be interested in and then you can click through, you can read up about the criteria, and even if you don t meet the criteria exactly you can still apply. So then basically you click through to company websites, you have to fill out forms and upload documents and you have to do this seven times over for every company that you apply to. So it s very tedious. And then finally it s also very discouraging, which was something that I experienced but a lot of people experience, because you get this automated e-mail that says: Thanks for your application, if you don t hear anything back from us in two weeks time consider your application to be unsuccessful. And that s extremely discouraging. And then the third event was at the end of this phase of looking for work, where I phoned our career services at the business school and I asked them there s a specific company that I knew was going to come and visit. I wanted to hear about their opportunities and I actually missed them, but there was one more company that came along and I decided I m just going to go and have a listen. So I pitch up at the business school, I walk into this room and I can see, this company did a lot of they made a lot of effort. They flew down their staff from Joburg, they had banners all over the show, they had these Moleskin notebooks on everyone s desk and they catered for about 50 students. But in the end only 15 students pitched and immediately I realised that there s this gap between when companies want to engage with students and when students are ready to be engaged with. Because at that stage, students were writing exams, they had projects so they weren t thinking about finding opportunities or finding work. And yes so it s those three events that lead to the idea of Leaply. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So what exactly does Leaply do? TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: Essentially we re a marketplace platform that has two types of clients. On the one side we have your students and graduates that are looking for opportunities and we have certain benefits to them. So I explained earlier that if you have to apply to seven different companies, apply in seven different ways, what we essentially do is we get the student to create a digital CV and they give us a lot of information in that CV and it allows us to then match them to opportunities that they re qualified for. But we basically ask them to create this CV, upload their documents, and fill out forms once and then they can one click apply to everything that they re qualified for. They can also track the status of their application in real time, so they know exactly where they are in the process with each company. On the company side we have essentially a three-in-one offering where the first part is the candidate vetting and pre-screening. Our algorithm does not allow candidates to apply if they don t meet the criteria. So if you re a big bank and you have 100 graduate roles available for the year, you get over 10 000 applications, a large percentage of those are unsuitable applications of people who end up applying and shouldn t actually be able to apply. So we bring down the volumes for these companies and we make it a lot more manageable for the HR managers. That s the one component. The second component is the whole candidate relationship management and I think our platform is purely geared for that. We ve got a great applicant tracking system, we personalise the communication that candidates receive as companies engage with their profiles on our system, but we as Leaply also provide real-time candidate support. So candidates can at any stage, if they re concerned about why is it taking so long for them to get an answer, or what s the status of the application, or if they have any questions, they can engage with us in real time. And then the third component is that we have this multinational database of students with tens of thousands of students on there, companies can get their branding exposed to this database and they can upload their opportunities and they can actually also send direct invites to candidates on our database who qualify for their opportunities. So they can actually filter, they can say I m looking for a female from UCT with an engineering degree and a 70% aggregate &#8211; and send that candidate a direct invite to apply to their opportunities. The success rate on that s been amazing, I mean if you re a candidate you can just imagine that if you get an invite from a company to apply to one of their roles, it s a massive ego boost but also you ve just doubled your chances of landing an interview. So they tend to apply. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: So in the industry that you re in and the model and the way the business works, where do you see it playing out in the next few years? Is it a competitive industry to be in or would you say that you ve got something that s quite niche and different? TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: We started out pretty niche. I think where the stuff that we re working on is very interesting, this topic of where the industry is going is a fascinating topic that I can go on for years. I personally don t have much HR experience, but something that I ve learned over the past few years is that HR managers have a very important and difficult job. Essentially they are the gatekeepers of a company so their job is to screen candidates and predict who will be the top performers in certain roles, but it s also to protect against non-performers getting inside of the company. So we as a company rely on their ability to make snap judgements to make a candidate or move a candidate into an interview process or not and a single decision in either direction can either cost the company or make them millions of rands. If we add some numbers to that, research by Dr Sullivan (he s an international HR expert) showed that larger organisations might carry anything between 15 to 60 open vacancies or requisitions at a time. Career Builder and Magazine Inc showed that for every open position you get about 75 to 250 applications respectively and then there was a 2012 study by the Ladders that showed corporate recruiters only spend six seconds on every resume. In that time they need to make decisions about whether the candidate 1) can perform well in that role, 2) whether they would last long enough in that role to make a positive impact on the business, and 3) be in a role the candidate will actually enjoy and find satisfying. So if we assume that a company has about 35 open requisitions and that they re going to receive around 100 applications for each open vacancy, the HR manager needs to deal with 3 500 applications. And in that six seconds they need to keep the requirements of the roles in their mind, they need to make sure that the decisions are unbiased and then they also have to look at the characteristics of prior successful candidates that they ve placed and try and compare that to the CVs or r sum s that they ve seen in front of them. Now when they end up making a good call (or a bad one for that matter), they don t have access to proper data that could help them to consistently replicate success and avoid failure, and today s candidate screening process is just a losing battle. It s not scalable, it s not repeatable, and the process can t learn from past successes and mistakes. And in six seconds or less current recruiters aren t giving candidates a fair chance, they re juggling like 3 500 other things. So where I think the future is going is we ll see HR managers starting to use technology and data to help them make better hiring decisions. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If you could have one person, irrespective of what position they have or even an organisation that s listening to this interview, who would it be? TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: I d have to say HR directors at large corporates like your banks, telecoms and law firms because that is essentially our largest client base at this stage. So if I had to mention specific companies, FNB, RMB and Investec are the only banks that haven t used our platform yet so it will be great if we could own that sector. Then we have big law firms like Webber Wentzel and Bowmans already using our platform so we re looking to get ENS and your Cliff Dekkers and Werksmans on there as well. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: In terms of starting the conversation with you from the moment we leave this interview, how do we find you, is there a website, do you have a LinkedIn account, how do people interact? TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: We have a website that people can visit, leap.ly/employers where they can find a few testimonials from clients, where they can see which other clients use us. We re not that active on social media. We believe people do business with people so we prefer engaging with our clients on a personal level. So you will most likely find us on SAGEA (South African Graduate Employers Association), they ve got these quarterly networking events for graduate recruiters and we ll be at those. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Alright, and if you had one piece of advice for entrepreneurs that you could share with them, what would that be? TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: I d say if you have a good idea, sleep on it. If after a week you re still excited about it, you probably have something there. And then my advice would be to go for it, even if the odds are against you. It s a lonely journey, it s a rollercoaster ride, so surround yourself with people who believe in you and support you and maybe something else, try and bootstrap your company as far as possible until you at least have product market fit because you re just going to increase the value for the company and give away less equity if you take on funding. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Now there are many Accelerator programmes out there, what attracted you to the Grindstone Accelerator? TIAAN VAN DER SPUY: I sent an email to our clients at the end of last year trying to explain what Grindstone is but essentially for me it s pretty much like the Oscars, but for start-ups. It s extremely difficult to get in, last year there were over 150 applications and only 10 companies get to go into Grindstone. To me it s a validation of your idea, it s a great recognition not only of what you ve achieved up to that point, but also your future potential and during Grindstone we get to work alongside some of the brightest and cleverest minds, some of the craziest start-ups that you ll ever see. We get exposure to business leaders and experts in their various fields, guys like Mike Joubert who used to head up the global marketing team for Levis. Richard Dewing, the founder of Cibecs, who is probably one of the best entrepreneurs and sales people I ve ever met in my life. Guys like your own Marc Ashton, Supersport commentator Matt Pierce, so we get to spend time with these guys and just get some of their experience across. And then of course the Knife Capital team who run Grindstone: they re experts in their own fields, in their own right, they re accessible 24/7 and we just get tremendous support from them. So I don t think any other Accelerator exists in SA that offers all of that. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Alright Tiaan thanks very much for your time. That was Tiaan van der Spuy, he s the chief executive officer at Leaply.