Ratings Afrika analysed the recently-published audited financial statements (for the year ended June 30 2016) of all eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa and scored each with regard to financial stability. Moneyweb will publish its analysis of each of the metros in the coming days. Read Ratings Afrika s findings on Joburg, Cape Town, Tshwane, Ekurhuleni, eThekwini and Mangaung.The latest Municipal Financial Sustainability Index (MFSI) from Ratings Afrika, based on financial results up to June 2016, reveals mixed results for the eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa. The MFSI is a scoring model that evaluates the operating performance, liabilities management, budget practices and liquidity position of a municipality and scores these components out of 100.Nelson Mandela Bay&#8217;s overall financial sustainability score of 53 (out of 100) reflects a fair level of sustainability and some consistency over the last three years. The weakest component of the metro s financial sustainability is its operating performance. The operating surplus of only R7 million in 2016, is considered inadequate for long-term capital formation and the expansion of its infrastructure. The small surplus is perhaps an indication of spending pressures by the previous administration, that can be seen in the increase in staff costs &#8211; which reached a high of 40% of total expenditure (excluding bulk purchases for electricity and water). Furthermore, the spending on maintenance declined in 2016 to less than 3% of the value of its assets. It is an approach that could affect the quality of the assets adversely, with an increased risk of service disruptions.In spite of the small surplus, Nelson Mandela Bay has consistently spent relatively large amounts on infrastructure over the last three years, aggregating R4.7 billion. This is an average per capita spend of R1 330 per year, which compares well with that of the other metros. The capital spending was largely funded through its own cash and capital grants received from national government.Nelson Mandela Bay did not raise any loans during the last three years. The long-term borrowings have consequently declined from R1.6 billion in 2014 to under R1.4 billion in 2016. The debt burden measured by the borrowings as a percentage of the operating revenue of only 25%, is very low and reflects the low financial risk of the metro.Nelson Mandela Bay s liquidity position is sound, with a liquidity surplus (net current assets) of more than R1.3 billion, and displaying a growing trend. Revenue collection however is a concern, as it remained at only about 90% over the last three years. This low collection rate is likely to impact its liquidity position negatively and hamper service delivery should it continue at this level over the medium term.Although Nelson Mandela Bay s financial sustainability is considered only fair, it provides a base for the new administration to build on and strengthen its sustainability over time, while expanding its service delivery capacity.How Mangaung compares:Note: The Financial Stability score is based on the analysis of the financial statements only.Leon Claassen is an analyst at Ratings Afrika.