JOHANNESBURG The South African Revenue Service (Sars) says the head of the committee tasked with a comprehensive review of the country s tax system, Judge Dennis Davis, should recuse himself.In a scathing statement released on Friday, Sars accused Davis of unashamedly misleading the public. It said it was in the process of seeking a legal opinion on the prospect of lodging a complaint with the Judicial Service Commission with regard to Davis conduct. It said it was treacherous and unprecedented for a judge to mislead the public .This follows after reports were published in City Press and Fin24 on March 5, in which Davis reportedly said the biggest challenge facing South Africa was an erosion of the integrity of Sars. Speaking at a recent conference on tax evasion and illicit financial flows, Davis also reportedly questioned the relatively low number of 103 000 individuals that fell into the new top marginal tax bracket of 45%, indicated that the drop in personal income tax collections was not merely a function of the economic downturn as Sars explained, and suggested that the Voluntary Disclosure Programme (VDP) could not succeed if taxpayers no longer feared the Revenue Authority. In his address, Judge Davis unashamedly misled the South African public and purported to undermine public confidence into Sars in a desperate endeavour to pursue a patently false narrative, Sars said in the statement.The statement comes amid infighting in the ruling party and widespread reports about the tense relationship between the Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan and the Commissioner of Sars, Tom Moyane. Gordhan appointed Davis as head of the tax committee during his previous tenure as Minister of Finance. President Jacob Zuma appointed Moyane. Sars intends to engage the Minister of Finance urgently with a view that Judge Davis should recuse himself from the specialist tax committee, it said.The Revenue Authority denied that it had no capability to deal with non-compliance by multinational companies. Judge Davis is expected to be fully aware that Sars is not in a business of scaring taxpayers into compliance, but its mission is a trilogy of educating and serving with enforcement being the last resort. It also rejected the notion that the VDP was expected to fail. Sars expected Judge Davis to be fully aware of the fact that the shortfall on revenue estimates is entirely due to economic factors based on macro-economic indicators developed by National Treasury. It also said Davis should have been honest with the public on whose responsibility it was to grow the economy and create opportunities for more revenue collection. Sars is persuaded that Judge Davis is part of a systemically orchestrated narrative that primarily seeks to decimate and undermine the leadership of Sars in order to engulf Sars into a crisis of lack of public confidence and illegitimacy. It is of paramount importance to note that it would seem that Judge Davis has for some time now behaved in a manner that could be perceived as advocating a veiled strategy to mobilise a possibility of a tax revolt by taxpayers against the State. Davis could not immediately be reached for comment.