The opening of Sun International s R4-billion Time Square development near Menlyn Park Shopping Centre in Pretoria is now down to the wire with less than four weeks to the opening of the casino.Much hinges on the opening of this complex, which is the biggest development in the hospitality, gaming and leisure industry since the construction of Sun International s GrandWest Casino in Cape Town in 2000.Dogged by lack-lustre casino and food and beverage earnings over the last few years, Sun International is putting a lot of store into the fact that poor economy or not, Time Square will become a flagship operation in South Africa and will attract local and global punters in serious numbers.Contractors are putting the finishing touches to the casino, which with its abundant natural light, is a break from the usual dingy casino interior. One &#8216;casino&#8217; is partitioned into at least six different areas depending on whether you smoke and what stakes you are willing to play. It is the posh (and high stakes) Salon Priv that is expected to generate up to 40% of the casino&#8217;s revenues. About 250 casino staff, many previously unemployed have already begun the training necessary to manage the 60 tables and 2 000 slot machines. Below the casinos five executive chefs with a team of 200 have developed menus to fit the 16 restaurants on the site and are currently uploading these into an IT system that will manage ordering, pricing, even temperature instructions to individual ovens!A year ago Sun International insourced its food and beverage operations as part of its drive to better manage the customer experience. So there will be no Ocean Baskets, Debonairs or Wimpys on the site. Instead the offering will include a diner branded by TV star Guy Fieri of Guy s Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives , Something s Cooking by Mi Casa s J Something (Joao da Fonseca) and the Ristorante Ritrovo, which has operated from Waterkloof for 20 years. Partners who can provide authentic rather than western styled Chinese or Indian cuisine will do so. This is important to the Chinese and Indian high-rollers the complex hopes to attract.While food and beverage will not deliver the same margins as gambling, earnings are expected to be much better than the current breakeven situation.For outgoing CEO Graeme Stephens and his team, the opening will reflect a triumph of determination and drive over the seemingly impossible. Nelson Mandela has been quoted as saying that it always seems impossible until its done , and there were times when this project seemed impossible, Stephens said during a media walk-about of the new facility last week.The first seemingly impossible hurdle was securing permission from the Gauteng Gambling Board for Sun International to move its gaming license from Morula Casino in Mabopane to Menlyn in Tshwane. This was a convoluted two year process that involved an abortive attempt by Sun International to acquire competitor Peermont, which owns the Emerald Palace on the East Rand, and which had voiced strong objections to the license application. The merger was denied and Sun was required to pay Peermont a R675 million break fee but permission to move the license was granted, uncontested.Other challenges included getting the massive project built and operating within a very tight two-year time period. I actually gave the go ahead to break ground before all the necessary approvals were through. It could have had some serious consequences for me had it gone wrong, Stephens says.In his free time Stephens is an avid off-road adventurer, with a penchant for Land Rovers. I ve learnt that to surmount obstacles one needs to face them down calmly some of them I don t even need to get into low range for, he says in answer to a question on overcoming the many challenges necessary to get the casino built.Stephens took over as Sun International CEO in 2011. He inherited a hierarchical, cost-heavy structure with assets that were fast losing favour with customers and set about transforming the business with gusto. What followed has been one gigantic restructuring programme that involved global expansion, corporate renewal and portfolio streamlining.Along the way he developed a reputation for out-of-the-box thinking and a quiet, but determined approach to problem solving. He leads from the front, says Brett Hoppe, GM of the new Time Square development. This is the type of leadership that empowers you to make decisions and forgives when you make mistakes. As a result I believe we have become a more effective organisation. Stephens was first approached by Skycity Entertainment Group in New Zealand for the position of CEO about 18 months ago, but turned it down to see the Time Square project to completion. It was only when Skycity offered to wait for him, and with Time Square on schedule, that he accepted the job.While he will only join Sky at the end of April, former CFO Anthony Leeming has already assumed the role of CEO, leaving Stephens free to ensure that the last four weeks to the completion of the casino require as little low-range driving as possible.The 8000-seat arena will open in September 2017 and the hotel complex in March 2018.