The second largest management company for co-named unit trusts in South Africa, MET Collective Investments, has confirmed that it is exiting this business. The company has decided that it no longer fits with its broader investment strategy.At the end of September last year, MET Collective Investments had assets under management of R38.4 billion. This accounted for around 21% of the money invested in co-named unit trusts in the country and included portfolios run by boutiques such as 36ONE, Truffle, Sasfin, Perpetua, Fairtree and Northstar.Investors in these portfolios will not be affected as most of them will be moved onto other management company licenses. MET Collective Investments expects this process to be completed by the end of the year.CEO Etienne Gouws explained that the decision is part of a broader change of approach from the asset manager. In future, we want to look after client money in the way we believe outcome-based investments should be managed, he explained.He added that managing white-labelled funds can be very challenging as it is a low-margin, high-risk business. He also believes that the regulatory requirements on management companies are only going to become more onerous and more costly.MET Collective Investments therefore initiated a process to offboard all of the portfolios it currently manages to other management companies. We&#8217;ve gone to each of our co-named partners to explain what we are doing and left the choice of an alternative management company up to them, Gouws said.Almost all the investment managers that were managing portfolios on the MET Collective Investments licence have elected to move to either Boutique Collective Investments (BCI) or Sanlam Collective Investments (SCI). As there are a number of requirements that have to be met this process will take time, so while some portfolios have already moved, others are still in the process of doing so. Generally, our co-named partners have been very cooperative, although we have had a few difficult conversations about the offboarding of their portfolios, Gouws said. We are hoping that by mid-November all the funds would have moved to those two mancos. Management companies cooperatingRobert Walton, the CEO of BCI told Moneyweb that he was very pleased with the way the transfer process had been handled. The MET Collective Investments project team is very capable and are doing a really good job, he said. We have taken some very big transfers, and are very happy with the way it has happened. Two of the larger managers that have already moved their funds onto the BCI licence are Sasfin and 36ONE.For its part, SCI told Moneyweb that it has already moved the funds managed by Rootstock Investment Management onto its licence, and has received approval to move those of Ampersand. There are eight more managers that have confirmed they will be moving to SCI, representing R14 billion in assets under management.The largest of these is Truffle Asset Management. It manages five portfolios, the largest of which is the R4.62 billion Truffle Flexible Fund.SCI&#8217;s CEO, Liezl Myburgh, said that while the transfer of these portfolios is a lengthy process that can take a number of months, it is progressing well. MetCI has been engaging with SCI closely since November 2016 and we work together on a weekly basis for operational planning in a collaborative effort to ensure a smooth transition for the co-named partners, she said. That ultimately ensures that both MetCI and SCI look after the best interests of the underlying investors. The future of co-namingWhile some questions have been raised about whether the decision from MET Collective Investments to close its co-naming business is a sign of growing pressure on this part of the market, BCI&#8217;s Walton disagrees. This was never a core business for them, so I can understand why they have implemented this strategy, he said. It&#8217;s not really going to impact the industry. You have to be a big provider of co-named funds to make it financially viable because this is a volume game. The margins are very low. Craig Mockford, director of the Prescient Management Company, which also co-names a number of funds, said that the decision from MET Collective Investments is certainly not an indication that there is trouble in the market. On the contrary, there continues to be growth. A number of years ago we thought this would level out, but there continues to be activity, he said. I think it shows a certain sense of health in the industry as there is a lot of innovation going on, with managers breaking away and setting up their own businesses. There are a lot of good boutiques coming through and that means good choice for investors. 