SIKI MGABADELI: One of the most controversial tax-related announcements made on February 22 relates to the steep 33% increase in the dividend withholding tax rate that is, from 15 to 20%. National Treasury projects that R6.8 billion in taxes will be collected as a result of this increase. Heads of course were spinning on the practical implications arising from the hike in this tax. Today we talk you through those with Somaya Khaki, who is project director for tax at Saica.Somaya, thanks so much for your time today. Firstly, why was this a surprise?SOMAYA KHAKI: Thanks, Siki, for having me. Well, nobody really expected such a big increase in the dividend withholding tax rate, and the budget review documents have introduced it to take into account the fact that individual tax rates or the highest individual tax rate has increased from 41% to 45%. So they wanted to take away the opportunity for an individual who has the means to earn dividends instead of a salary.SIKI MGABADELI: Yes.SOMAYA KHAKI: That s the reason why they increased the rate. But I think the big concern and all the confusion comes about as a result of the timing of the rate change, because this change has been made according to the proposal effective in respect of dividends paid on or after February 22 2017, the day of the budget speech. And, for example, individual tax rates only go up from March 1 2017.SIKI MGABADELI: So what are the implications of that effective date, and is that where the confusion lies?SOMAYA KHAKI: The confusion lies roughly with respect to unlisted companies. Just to give you a brief overview, the term paid is actually defined in the tax act with respect to dividend payments, and for listed companies it basically means actual cash payment. So for a listed company, regardless of when they declare the dividend, if it&#8217;s only paid on or after February 22 this year, that will attract dividends withholding tax at the higher rate of 20%.Now a lot of the confusion is coming in from taxpayers and the public with respect to the implications for dividends paid by an unlisted company because, as I mentioned, paid is a defined term. And for an unlisted company paid basically means the earlier of the actual cash payment and the date that the dividend became due and payable. So for an unlisted company that, for example, declared a dividend on February 21, and it became due and payable on that day, they in our view would be entitled to withhold dividends tax at the lower rate of 15%.But the concern comes due to some wording that s been going around, and some discussions with the Treasury, as well as information on the Sars website, where it is noted that dividends paid on or after February 22 will attract the withholding tax rate of 20%, regardless of when they were declared.SIKI MGABADELI: Okay. Then how do analysts of companies interpret all of this?SOMAYA KHAKI: In our view the legislation is quite clear with respect to the term or the definition of the term paid . An unlisted then in my view would only pay the 20% if the dividend became due and payable or was paid only after February 22. If the dividend became due and payable before February 22, but was actually paid on or after February 22, in our view the lower rate of 15% would still be applicable.There is a submission that s due to go in by this Friday to National Treasury to address these and other concerns that have been raised by members, and the public has an opportunity to also contribute to that debate and discussion, to make sure that all their concerns are noted and addressed, so that we do reach a point of clarity because there are dividend tax returns that are due to go in by the end of this month, and everyone is really concerned about whether, if they put in the dividend tax at a lower rate, they could be subject to penalties. Or if the do it at a higher rate than they should have, to get their refund may [be] too difficult. So there are all these practical considerations as well.And then obviously the concern is, is it really fair to impose this higher rate in respect of a past event? When making that decision in the past, i.e. before February 22, those involved would have their decisions based on what the rate was at that point in time.SIKI MGABADELI: What sort of penalty exposures would there be should the incorrect tax treatment be applied?SOMAYA KHAKI: There could be penalties imposed on the underpayment of the dividends tax, and I think Sars would look at the circumstances involved.But there is a range of penalties, actually, that could be applied and the problem is then disputing that penalty, because one may have sufficient grounds, taking into consideration that they applied the facts that were available at the relevant point in time.But that s also the reason why we are having this discussion so that everyone is aware of what the legislation states as it stands, and also the impact of the proposal. There is also quite a lot going on in the media. We have been communicating to our members as well through our different platforms to advise them of the situation, given the circumstances. They would then need to make a decision based on the facts that they have SIKI MGABADELI: on hand. All right, we&#8217;ll leave it there. Thanks, Somaya. Somaya Khaki is project director for tax at Saica.