Formal hearings into the relief sought by finance minister Pravin Gordhan in the matter involving the Oakbay group of companies and four commercial banks got underway at the North Gauteng High Court on Tuesday. The matter began with a number of ancillary issues being dealt with by the full bench headed by Judge President Dunstan Mlambo. These included whether counsel for the President, Matthew Chaskalson, could participate in proceedings without formally asking to do so. The application was denied. Then there was the issue brought by counsel for Sahara Computers, asking for evidence of a formal written instruction from Pravin Gordhan instructing the State Attorney to represent him in the matter. The judges made short shrift of this by stating it was clear the minister was acting ex-officio in his capacity as the Minister of Finance and that the State Attorney s role was to represent government officials acting in just such a capacity. No power of attorney was necessary and the application was denied. Much of the morning was then consumed with the argument surrounding the inclusion of the Financial Intelligence Centre certificate in the minister s founding affidavit. Counsel for Oakbay, Cedric Pukrin, argued that it was not necessary for the minister to include the FIC certificate in his affidavit, as he had already been advised by counsel (Jeremy Gauntlett) that he had no basis in law to intervene in the matter between the banks and its erstwhile client, the Oakbay group of companies. In reply, Gauntlett argued that the certificate justified the assertion by the banks that they had reasonable grounds to close the accounts of the Guptas. The detail provided on the certificate which lists 72 suspicious transaction reports amounting to many billions of rands displayed the seriousness and scope of the matter Gordhan was being asked to intervene in. The judges ruled in Oakbay s favour, saying the inclusion of the certificate was immaterial to the point of law being argued. During the course of proceedings, Oakbay voluntarily offered to withdraw its claims that Gordhan had acted in collusion with the banks, something which was agreed to by the judges. Stressing the point that the case was not about State Capture, the judges also ordered the testimony of deputy finance minister, Mcebisi Jonas, to be struck off the record. Despite a request from Judge Mlambo that the parties seek a settlement to the matter, the two sides could not come to any agreement during the adjournment for lunch. This, despite both sides agreeing that the minister has no legal basis to intervene in a matter of private law. Gauntlett summarised these exchanges by asking, We filed the motion seeking relief first, if you (Oakbay) were not opposed to it, why did you file responding papers? The bulk of the afternoon was afforded to Gauntlett to put forward his client s case. He defined the declaratory order being sought as a gentler law, one that grants rights to the person seeking the relief . In its responding papers, Oakbay has sought to downplay the requests its executives made to Gordhan to intervene in the matter. Gauntlett highlighted the pressure that had been brought to bear on the minister, both by executives of Oakbay as well as by others in the ANC. Gauntlett also argued that the law could very much use the precedent. There is no other instance where the question [of a political office bearer intervening in a matter like this] has been squarely answered. He also laid out the conditions in which a declaratory order could be granted, and in so doing, addressed some of the arguments made in Oakbay s response. These included the assertion there does not need to be a dispute or an opponent when seeking a declaratory order. What is needed, he advanced, is parties to which the order could be binding. ( No shortage of these he suggested.) Also, if there is a history of contestation over the matter, then why not provide one? Starting with Standard Bank tomorrow, the banks will make their arguments in support of the minister, before Oakbay will be allowed to state its case.