The Aspen share price has rallied somewhat since last Thursday s interim results presentation, but at R279.40 the share remains well off its highs of R384.74 for the year and its all-time high of R436, reached in February 2015.Even at these levels Aspen is not a bargain, trading off a PE of 30x and forward PE of 15.73.Recent results show a management team that remains fiercely committed to its objective of driving growth from the company &#8211; a global, multinational organisation focused on therapeutic specialities &#8211; but this goal is being hampered by low growth in the core business and declining returns from its various acquisitions.The blue-sky opportunities &#8211; most recently in China and the US &#8211; are clearly articulated by management. In China, the world s second largest pharmaceutical market, the infrastructure necessary to support sales of the recently acquired anaesthetics businesses has been rolled out, says deputy CEO Gus Attridge. Meanwhile, on the other side of the globe, in the US, the company continues with its cautious foray into the world&#8217;s largest pharmaceutical market. Here Aspen has moved from its small (and unfortunately not hungry enough) distributor to a bigger, more efficient pharmaceutical company for the distribution of HPC, a man-made hormone that helps pregnant women reach full term. These opportunities are backed up by good organic growth in Latin America, Asia Pacific, Middle East, and the US, while the nutritionals business grew well in South Africa, says Attridge.In its results for the six months to December, Aspen returned a 6% growth in normalised earnings per share of R6.92 achieved on the back of a 13% growth in revenues. This is well off the Thomson Reuters consensus, which put expected earnings per share at R8.68 on revenue growth of 30%.In addition to non-operating items (such as currency volatility or regulated price decreases) that impacted the business, the understated fact in the results was that margins and revenue growth were under pressure across all regions.If one strips off the contribution of the AstraZeneca/GSK anesthetics acquisition, which added R2.8 billion, revenues were actually down 2.5% (1H2017 vs 1H2016).This should not have come as a surprise when compared to the 2H2016 which was horrific, says Reuben Beelders, portfolio manager at Gryphon Asset Management. While management is confident that the 2H2017 will show a marked improvement thanks to the full impact of the acquisitions and turnarounds in Europe and South Africa, I am concerned by headwinds such as costs, which are difficult to forecast and the strength of the rand, which may be a drag on revenues. There are a lot of things to overcome. Investors will agree that Aspen is a complex business to understand, with a lot of moving parts. A strategy that looks good on paper, does not always translate well in execution. &#8220;We were expecting this half to be tough,&#8221; says John Thompson, an analyst with Investec Asset Management. &#8220;But we are concerned by the lack of growth in the core operations. The crux is that you are paying up for delivery, but what you are getting is a lot of unknowns. This is tricky as the quantum of growth that the market expects in the next 6 months relies on perfect execution.&#8221;Most concerning is that in Europe the base business saw revenues decline 10%, while in the second biggest business, Sub-Saharan Africa, pharmaceutical sales were down 8%.Elsewhere in the world pricing and regulatory pressures subdued revenue growth while volumes were pedestrian. The effect was that normalised Ebitda margins were down across the board culminating in Group normalised Ebitda margin of 27.7% (1H2016: 29.3%). Our analysis suggests that this disappointing set of results may only be the beginning of troubled times for one of the darlings of the stock market. In fact we would go as far as saying that management is caught in a growth chokehold and is almost forced to make acquisitions to protect their wealth and stellar growth track record, says Zwelakhe Mnguni, CIO at Benguela Global Fund Managers. Longer-term analysisThis is not to suggest Aspen is going south. As Mnguni points out, the company is one of Africa s great business success stories. Bear in mind it grew headline earnings per share at an annualised rate of 22% per annum over the 15 years to 2016 while the market only managed to deliver 11% pa over the same period. In return, over this 15-year period, the market rewarded Aspen with an average PE ratio of 21.2x versus 14.7x for the Alsi. In fact since 2012, Aspen has consistently traded at a significantly higher PE multiple than that of the market. This has been a huge vote of confidence on the ability of the business and management to continue delivering phenomenal growth in earnings, he says.It s also worth noting the two factors have been at the heart of Aspen s financial growth and global success:Product Strategy: As early as 1999, Aspen CEO Stephen Saad spotted the opportunity in generics. As drugs came off patent globally, it was cheaper to replicate them than invest in the research and development of new drugs. In 2006, Aspen invested heavily in the modernisation of its plant in Port Elizabeth to derive economies of scale from future production.Acquisitions: With a modernised production facility in place, management focused on acquiring new products that could be manufactured from the plant to get higher capacity utilisation. Between 2008 and 2017 Aspen was party to over 23 transactions valued at over $4.9 billion (R64.3 billion in today s rands, Thomson Reuters). A notable effect of these acquisitions other than growth in revenue, profits and intangible assets was that Aspen has accumulated over R6 billion of Goodwill ( after impairments ) on the balance sheet. This equates to 21% of retained earnings and 14% of total shareholders equity. In simple English, this is money paid by management to which no specific asset can be attributed, Mnguni says.Aspen management s focus has been to deliver persistently high growth in revenues and profits. We believe that while growth is important and can enhance value creation, it should always be treated with caution as growth tends to have lower persistence than a fundamental factor like return on invested capital (ROIC) which is a much better measure of business performance, he says.In Aspen s case, while earnings growth has been phenomenal over the past 15 years, returns on invested capital have been in an almost linear decline. Aspen s return on invested capital has dropped from an average of 28% between 2001 and 2008 to a meagre 6% in 2016. At Benguela s estimated weighted average cost of capital (WACC) Aspen is now in deep value destruction territory arrived at despite an extraordinarily stable record of operating margins and phenomenal growth . This is proof that growth is not always profitable.The key factor behind the deterioration in Aspen s ROIC has been the phenomenal decline in the revenue generated per rand of asset. In 2016 Aspen s asset-turnover was 0.37x. This showed a precipitous drop from an average of 0.98x between 2001 and 2008. Put simply, Aspen used to generate 98 cents in revenue for every rand of assets they held and now they generate only 37 cents. This means that at their stable operating margin of 25%, Aspen is now generating operating profits of 9.4 cents per rand of assets owned versus in 25 cents per rand of assets prior to 2008. We believe that this is potentially ominous especially because operating margins are starting to deteriorate across all operating regions,&#8221; Mnguni says. &#8220;The deterioration in asset-turn is often a symptom of price deflation caused by rising industry rivalry and/or regulatory pressure. As a result, the growth of 26% pa in revenues and 22% pa in earnings since 2001, has been insufficient to meet the 35% pa growth rate in total assets used to produce the reported revenues and profits. Included in that rapid asset growth is a non-income generating asset called Goodwill. It would appear from Aspen s 2017 interim results that the organic growth momentum from previous acquisitions is starting to fizzle out and industry effects are starting to gain a foothold. Should management continue to seek revitalisation of the current pedestrian growth rate through acquisitions without taking their medicine (asset sales and cost reductions), Aspen would be permanently condemned into the value destroyer league. Throwing shareholders money at the problem would only aggravate the current situation,&#8221; he says.&nbsp;One way to think about how the market is currently valuing Aspen, is to consider the extent to which growth is implied in the current market value of the stock and see if this is reasonable. If one assumes a constant 8% WACC and current trailing twelve months profits as sustainable: it would appear that the market expects most (62%) of the value in Aspen to come from a bullish growth outlook. This is close to the most bullish growth expectation (June 2016) the market has ever implied in the stock since 2001. Historically the value of future growth accounted for, on average, only 20% of the Aspen s market value.The current scenario, says Mnguni, is therefore completely out of kilter with history and reality as observed through the recent interim results.