Over the last decade and a half, South African lawmakers have done a lot to try to protect clients in the financial services industry. The Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services (Fais) Act is one of the most important pieces of legislation in this regard as it sets down who can give financial advice, how that advice can be given, and what it must entail.The Act also established the office of the Fais Ombud. This is an independent body that consumers can approach when they believe that the financial service they have received has not complied with the Act and they have suffered some prejudice as a result.This might include misrepresenting products, not disclosing fees, failing to keep proper records, not protecting personal information, not disclosing conflicts of interest, recommending products that are not approved by the Financial Services Board (FSB), or failing to maintain a proper separation of funds. More seriously, it can also include fraud and misappropriation of funds.Importantly, the Ombud is also empowered to act if a financial service has been rendered by someone who is not authorised to do so.Lodging a complaintTo approach the Ombud, you must meet certain requirements. The first is that you must have attempted to resolve the matter with the person or company you are complaining about. Only if they have failed to address it satisfactorily within six weeks can you then go to the Ombud. And you must do so within six months of receiving the final response from them.The second consideration is that you have three years in which to submit a complaint to the Ombud. After that time, the Ombud cannot legally investigate it.There is some leeway granted if you can demonstrate that you only became aware of the issue sometime after it had actually taken place. You will then have three years from the time that you became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware , whichever is earlier.Thirdly, you can&#8217;t approach the Ombud if you have already lodged the matter in court. In other words, you can&#8217;t pursue both a court case and a complaint with the Ombud on the same issue.The Ombud does however have some to discretion to decide that a complaint would be better dealt with by the courts. If it can demonstrate reasonable grounds for doing so, it can decline to investigate a matter and refer the complainant to the courts instead.Finally, you can&#8217;t approach the Ombud if you are seeking monetary compensation of more than R800 000. If the financial prejudice you believe you have suffered is more than that, you will either need to forego the excess or take the matter directly to the courts.The exception to this is if the party you are complaining about agrees in writing to pay more than R800 000. That, however, is an unlikely prospect.Importantly, the complaint cannot relate to the performance of a financial product, unless that performance was guaranteed or the Ombud decides that the performance was so deficient that it points to misrepresentation, negligence or maladministration.The processOnce it has received a complaint and made all parties aware of it, the Ombud must always first try to reach a settlement agreement. In other words, it will attempt to mediate to find a solution that is acceptable to everyone.It can do this by making a proposal of its own and asking all the parties if they will accept it. If they all do, this will become a final determination.If however one or more of the parties do not agree, they will have to give their reasons in writing. The Ombud will then have to make a binding determination, which it may do after further investigation.The Ombud has the power to make a monetary award for any financial loss that has been suffered, as well as ordering that any financial services provider or its representative take whatever steps it deems appropriate to resolve the matter. It also has the power to make any other order that a court could make.Significantly, the Ombud is also legally obligated to refer to the FSB any information arising from a complaint that may require the regulator to take action of its own, such as withdrawing or suspending a license.Appeal Any party against whom the Ombud has made a determination does have the right to appeal. This includes anyone whose complaint has been dismissed on grounds that they believe are unreasonable.The first step is to appeal to the Ombud itself, which they need to do within one month of the ruling. If the Ombud grants leave to appeal, the matter will be referred to the FSB Appeal Board. This is a body chaired by an experienced advocate or attorney, and its members will have expert knowledge of the industry.Even if the Ombud refuses leave to appeal, the aggrieved party does still have recourse. They can apply directly to the chairperson of the FSB Appeal Board. Again, this must happen within one month and the Ombud must be informed in writingIf after all of this the party is still unsatisfied, they may approach the High Court.