Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.EU positionThe European Union set out its position on Brexit negotiations this morning. EU President Donald Tusk said discussions over future commercial ties would not take place until sufficient progress&#8221; has been made on the terms of Britain&#8217;s withdrawal from the union. There was mixed economic data for the UK this morning as the latest revision of 2016 fourth-quarter GDP showed the weaker pound helped boost trade, while consumers felt the pressure from rising inflation. Flynn immunityFormer US National Security Adviser Mike Flynn is said to have asked for immunity from prosecution before he is interviewed as part of inquiries into alleged contacts between the Trump administration and Russian officials. Meanwhile, the argument over surveillance of President Donald Trump&#8217;s team and associates rumbles on, with the White House inviting leaders of congressional intelligence panels to review documents related to the matter. Turning to policy, the president will today order a comprehensive study to identify every form of &#8220;trade abuse&#8221; that contributes to US deficits. Zuma swings axSouth African President Jacob Zuma fired nine members of his cabinet, including Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. The rand tumbled on the news and is now down more than 7.5% this week, as the move is seen to risk a weaker South African economy and a split in the ruling African National Congress party. There was also a power grab in Venezuela, where the Supreme Court gutted the opposition-run Congress of its duties, pushing the country towards dictatorship. Markets slipOvernight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.9%, and Japan&#8217;s Topix Index fell 1% in the final trading session of the quarter. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index, which was 0.3% lower at 5:42am Eastern Time, is on track for its best March since 2010 and its longest run of quarterly gains since 2014. US stock futures were also losing ground. Economic dataInflation in the euro area slipped to 1.5% in March, lower than economists expected, according to Eurostat&#8217;s flash estimate. In Germany, unemployment fell to new record lows, as the number out of work dropped by 30 000. Coming up in the US today at 8:30am is personal income and spending data, with Chicago PMI due at 9:45am. A week of speeches by the Federal Reserve officials rounds up with appearances from Fed Bank of New York President William Dudley, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard and Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari all due later. 2017 Bloomberg