Old Mutual has slashed its full-year dividend by a third, in line with a new capital management policy that seeks to balance shareholder returns and cash demands associated with the managed separation.The financial services group is working toward separating itself into four standalone businesses: Old Mutual Emerging Markets (OMEM), Old Mutual Wealth (OMW), Old Mutual Asset Management (OMAM) and Nedbank. Under the new conservative policy, the Anglo-South African group &#8211; which reports in sterling &#8211; reduced its dividend for the year ended December 31 to 6.06 pence, down from 8.90 pence in 2015. We had previously indicated in 2015 and in the first half of 2016, that plc Head Office cash contributed to paying dividends to shareholders and that dividends going forward will reflect the capacity for distributions from the underlying businesses, the group said.During the period under review, the group s pre-tax adjusted operating profit (AOP), which reflects underlying business performance, was broadly flat in constant and reported currency terms at 1.7 billion. Per International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the group s pre-tax profit amounted to 1.2 billion, including impairments of 160 million against Nedbank subsidiary Ecobank Transactional Incorporated, Old Mutual Southern and East Africa and Old Mutual Wealth Italy.Favourable currency movements and an increase in Nedbank s market value saw the group s adjusted net asset value increase to 228.6 pence per share, up from 178.9 pence per share. Read: Nedbank sees benefits of stingy lending policyIts adjusted operating profit (AOP) earnings per share were relatively unchanged at 19.4 pence compared with 19.3 pence previously. While basic earnings per share fell to 11.9 pence from 12.7 pence.Excluding Rogge, the fixed income asset manager sold to Allianz in May 2016, funds under management increased by 30% to 395 billion. While the macroeconomic conditions have been tough in 2016, our businesses have performed resiliently, with a stronger performance in the second half, demonstrating the underlying strengths of the franchises, said Bruce Hemphill, Old Mutual chief executive.He said the group s managed separation remains on track to be materially complete by the end of 2018, with the closure of its London head office expected in 2018.The group has already cut 50% of its head office workforce, or between 130 and 140 employees, which will result in an operational savings run rate in excess of 10 million per annum from 2017. It said costs to wind down the head office and its activities are likely to fall in the upper end of its 50 million to 65 million target range.The head office closure will deliver savings of 95 million in central costs by 2019 but will come at a one-off cost of 130 million. The one-off cost also includes the capacity building costs needed by OMEM and OMW to function as standalone listed entities. Operational costs of circa 30 million previously incurred by the plc, of which only 19 million was recharged in 2016, will now be borne directly by OMEM and OMW. They will also incur combined incremental costs of 20 million per annum as a result of being standalone businesses, the group said.The managed separation is expected ease the regulatory burden of operating a complex multinational company and unlock the conglomerate discount for shareholders.To this end, the group has reduced its stake in the New York-listed OMAM to 51%, raising proceeds of 230 million, and sold Old Mutual Wealth Italy for 210 million. It is also said to have reduced holding company debt by 385 million and annual finance costs by 21 million in 2017.It is expected to incur one-off advisory and listing costs of at least 100 million related to the listing of its two unlisted businesses OMEM and OMW.OMEM, currently managed by interim CEO Iain Williamson, is to focus on sub-Saharan Africa as it prepares for a primary listing in South Africa. Our natural playground, our natural area of competitive advantage is Africa [and] not far flung fields. We ve got fantastic businesses in Latin America and in India but where we deploy scarce resources, they should be to sub-Saharan Africa, said Hemphill.While the search for a new OMEM CEO continues, following Ralph Mupita s resignation late last year, former South African finance minister Trevor Manuel has been appointed chairman of the board.Read: Manuel to chair Old Mutual Emerging MarketsUK-focused wealth manager OMW s board has also been strengthened with the appointment of UK financial services executive Glyn Jones as chairman. Responding to shareholder concerns about the future of the UK business in the wake of Brexit, Hemphill told Moneyweb that the UK economy held up remarkably well against widespread expectations. The UK has revised its 2017 economic forecast up to 2%, up from the 1.4% forecast previously. If anything, it is looking like prospects for the UK economy &#8211; at least in the short term &#8211; have improved, which is good news for our business, he said adding that the terms of the negotiation and subsequent impact on the UK economy and OMW remain unclear.