Judge Rene Tolmay has ruled that the attempt by the Gupta-linked Vardospan to force the Reserve Bank and Finance Minister to approve the application to acquire Habib Overseas Bank by the 31 March was unrealistic. She has struck the application off the court roll saying the application is not urgent.Vardospan had lodged an urgent application with the High Court in Pretoria to compel authorities to finalise its application that was lodged in August last year.In an answering affidavit Treasury Director General Lungisa Fuzile has cited Vardospan s links to Tegeta Exploration and Resources, Trillian Capital Partners and VR Laser Services, and the fact that these companies are named in the Public Protector s State of Capture report, as one of the factors complicating the application for approval to acquire Habib Overseas Bank. Gilbert Marcus, counsel for the Reserve Bank, had argued that there are no time periods within which such decisions must be taken by Registrar/SARB. &#8220;There is extraordinary arrogance by Vardospan.&#8221;Guns blazingEarlier in the week Vardospan director Hamza Farooqui issued a press release headed: Finance minister Pravin Gordahn needs to put up or shut up on 100% black-owned bank and argued that the acquisition would bring new competition to a sector dominated by the big five banks and prioritise the provision of desperately needed loans to SMEs and entrepreneurs .He said the Competition Commission gave its approval on January 13 and approvals from the Minister of Finance and Reserve Bank are now the only barriers preventing the completion of this transformative acquisition .According to Farooqui, the seven-month delay is unreasonable and is accusing Gordhan of stalling. What is his motive? Is he just protecting his friends and colleagues in South Africa s major banks in which he owns shares? he asks. We have been left with no alternative but to take this to court. In the statement, Farooqui refers to the company as his and Salim Essa s Vardospan .Investigative journalism unit AmaBhungane a year ago described Essa as a proxy for the controversial Gupta family, who is central to the issue of state capture. According to AmaBhungane, Essa s wife held shares in the Gupta-controlled Shiva Uranium when it listed in 2014, while Essa &#8211; through his company Elgasolve &#8211; held 22% in the Guptas Tegeta that controversially bought the Optimum coal mine and 75% in VR Laser Services with Gupta-owned entities owning the balance.In his affidavit, Treasury&#8217;s Fuzile says these ties complicate the consideration of Vardospan s application. He explains that the minister has to satisfy himself that Vardospan is financially strong enough to run a bank which takes deposits and has to be trusted as custodians of the public s money.Vardospan and both its shareholders Pearl Capital and CINQ are however new companies with no known business activities, no financial statements and no management accounts, which complicate the enquiry, Fuzile says.He says it seems as if CINQ s financial strength relies primarily on Essa s shareholding in Tegeta, Trillian and VR Laser, all of which have been named in the State Capture report. He continues: He says Gordhan cannot at this stage approve the application as information he requested to determine the financial strength of Vadrospan to support Habib Overseas Bank, and the fit and proper status of the executives the company will deploy to manage the bank, is still outstanding.The Reserve Bank has requested information from independent auditors of the nature, source and availability of the R327 million to be paid for the shareholding and further R150 million capital injection Vardospan plans, but among other things Vardospan, according to Fuzile, failed to provide full confirmation of the sources and availability of funding in respect of Pearl Capital .He says it also failed to provide financial statements of Tegeta, VR Laser and Trillian. Fuzile disputes the urgency of the matter. He says applications where minority shareholders increase their stakes in banks to more than 74% normally takes four years to finalise. Vardospan s expectation to finalise a move from zero to 99.9% is unrealistic, he says.The deadline of March 31 is based on a renegotiation of the arbitrarily chosen January deadline when the offer to purchase the bank would have lapsed. This was not set according to any timeline provided by the minister and is therefore self-imposed, Fuzile says.No doubt the various parties will retreat to their corners to plot the next move. The new finance minister Malusi Gigaba and his deputy Sfiso Buthelezi, will be sworn in on Friday at 6pm.&nbsp;