Ratings Afrika analysed the recently-published audited financial statements (for the year ended June 30 2016) of all eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa and scored each with regard to financial stability. Moneyweb will publish its analysis of each of the metros in the coming days. Read Ratings Afrika s findings on Joburg, Cape Town, Tshwane, eThekwini, Ekurhuleni, Mangaung and Nelson Mandela Bay. The latest Municipal Financial Sustainability Index (MFSI) from Ratings Afrika, based on financial results up to June 2016, reveals mixed results for the eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa. The MFSI is a scoring model that evaluates the operating performance, liabilities management, budget practices and liquidity position of a municipality and scores these components out of 100.Buffalo City s overall financial sustainability score of 66 (out of 100) reflects an adequate level of sustainability and a great measure of consistency over the last four years.Its financial profile alone achieved a score of 73 which is the highest of all the metros &#8211; one point higher than that of Cape Town. Its spending on infrastructure and the affordability of its services to its residents are however weaker than Cape Town, resulting in the overall score that is lower than that of the latter.The weakest component of Buffalo City s financial sustainability is its operating performance. The operating surplus was only R25 million in 2016. Although it is an improvement over the deficit of R137 million in 2015, it is considered inadequate for long-term capital formation and the expansion of its infrastructure. Furthermore, the spending on maintenance is only 2.7% (compared with Cape Town at 8.9%) of the value of its assets, which could affect the quality of the assets adversely, with an increased risk of service disruptions.Over the last three years Buffalo City has spent some R3 billion on infrastructure development, which is ample for the size of its revenue base. This is an average per capita spend of R1 270 per year, which compares well with that of the other metros. The capital spending was largely funded through its own cash and capital grants received from national government.Buffalo City did not raise any loans during the last three years. The long-term borrowings have consequently declined from R546 million in 2014, to R445 million in 2016. The debt burden, measured by the borrowings as a percentage of the operating revenue, of only 12%, is very low and reflects the low financial risk of the metro. However, this approach could have hampered the expansion of its infrastructure and the delivery of services to residents who do not yet have access to them.Buffalo City has a strong liquidity position, currently sound with a liquidity surplus (net current assets) of more than R2.1 billion, and displaying a growing trend. Revenue collection however is a concern, as it has remained at only about 91% over the last two years. This low collection rate is likely to impact its liquidity position negatively and hamper service delivery should it continue at this level over the medium-term.Buffalo City adequate financial sustainability provides a base from which it can grow and enlarge its service delivery capacity.How Buffalo City compares:Leon Claassen is an analyst at Ratings Afrika.