Consumer goods producer Tiger Brands is under fire from shareholders, with just 53.8% of votes at its recent annual general meeting (AGM) endorsing its remuneration policy. The AGM, held on February 21 saw 77.6% of shareholders voting on the non-binding, advisory resolution on remuneration.Over 46% of those who voted, voted against the resolution with a further 2.2% abstaining.Using Moneyweb s recent analysis of compensation-related votes at the 100 largest JSE-listed companies, which ran to February 16, Tiger would ve ranked second-worst overall, between TFG Limited (with just 52.72% in favour) and Anglo American (with 58.49% voting in favour). The company fared well at its previous AGM (in February 2016), with 89% of shareholders voting in favour of the non-binding resolution on remuneration. At that time, its largest local shareholder the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) voted in favour of all resolutions. It owned 12.9% of the company at the 2016 AGM. That shareholding has since reduced to 11.3%, as at September 30 2016, but the PIC remains Tiger s largest single shareholder. Its second-largest shareholder, Colonial First Street Global Asset Management (9% at end-September) has not yet disclosed its record of voting for 2016, and Tiger s third-largest shareholder, Investec Asset Management (6.6%), does not disclose their voting records on specific companies. Rather, it does so in aggregate across a quarter.Shareholder activist Theo Botha of Proxy View, says &#8220;it is clear from the vote that shareholders are not happy with the disclosure. Hopefully Tiger will engage with its shareholders. Hopefully it will report back to all shareholders on their findings&#8221;.We won&#8217;t know how the largest shareholders voted in February 2017 for a while (it will be at least another quarter until the earliest disclosures trickle out). However, given the dramatic swing in approval votes, something fundamental changed between 2016 and 2017. And, based on the sheer quantums involved, we can safely assume that many of these large shareholders, including the PIC, voted against the non-binding resolution on remuneration.There are three obvious differences from prior years.One reason might be in the one-off bonuses paid to three executives during last year. New chief executive Lawrence MacDougall netted a R20 million sign-on bonus, chief financial officer (and former acting CEO) Noel Doyle a R10 million retention bonus, and head of the group s consumer brands unit Grattan Kirk a R4 million retention bonus. Strangely, former CEO Peter Matlare was paid a bonus of close to R1 million in 2015, despite the group s disastrous foray into Nigeria. Shareholders, as previously indicated, were very much in favour of the group s remuneration in that year. If these bonuses weren t the issue, shareholders might ve quibbled about a R500 000 in-gratia payment made to the company s former CFO Olufunke Ighodaro for the swift execution of the disposal of Tiger Brands Consumer Goods of Nigeria to Dangote Industries .But, neither of these two possibilities seem enough to have moved the needle on voting to the extent that was evident.The third, more realistic, possibility is the adjustment of the group s remuneration policy and structure under Santie Botha, the chairperson of the remuneration committee (remco). There are substantial changes to both the short-term and long-term incentive schemes (STI and LTI) proposed for the 2017 financial year.The STI for executives will shift to exclude any measures on strategic objectives. Executive management (excluding directors) will now be measured on profit before interest and tax (70% weighting), net working capital (20%) and volume growth (10%). The measures for executive directors, however, are far more opaque, with the remco simply stating that a new scheme [is] to be introduced, based on targeted group Heps . No further detail is provided.A clue can be found in the PIC s disclosure of its reasons for voting against the remuneration-related resolution at TFG Limited s AGM in September. It states that STI has only one performance condition Heps, which can be easily manipulated . It also states that best practice recommends that companies must have multiple performance measures to avoid manipulation of results or poor business decisions .It must be noted that the PIC is not opposed to fair, even generous executive remuneration, provided that this is based on transparent and previously approved performance metrics, which are aligned with the interests of long-term investors .Tiger s remco reports that the instruments used and the quantum and performance conditions applied to awards in the company s LTI are in line with best practice . However, annual awards will now only be made in restricted shares and share appreciation rights (SARs). Performance shares, previously part of the award, are now excluded.A further change to the LTI is that the company will introduce a minimum shareholding policy, where senior executives are expected to build up their personal shareholding in the company to a minimum level of 150% of TRP (for the CEO) and 100% of TRP for other executive committee members. Executives have six years to build up these holdings and may use a portion of their STI or any vesting LTIs, or their own resources, to acquire these shares. When approached for comment, a Tiger spokesperson replied that &#8220;This level of support is below historical levels. Being a company that supports stakeholder engagement and inclusivity, we will ensure that the appropriate level of engagement takes place with stakeholders on an individual basis to ensure that any concerns related to the company s remuneration policy and practices are well understood and considered in future. The remuneration of non-executive directors is certainly not the issue, with a number of special resolutions related to these being approved by between 97% and 99%.&#8221;Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at [email&#160;protected]