It&#8217;s a huge week for central banks, European politics are heating up, and oil&#8217;s slide continues. Fed meetingThere is near universal agreement that the Federal Reserve will increase interest rates when the latest FOMC decision is announced on Wednesday. A survey of economists conducted by Bloomberg produced a median estimate of three hikes this year, coming in March, June and December. There are also monetary decisions due from the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England on Thursday. European politicsThe temperature on this Wednesday&#8217;s Dutch election has been turned up following a diplomatic standoff with Turkey over the weekend after authorities in the Netherlands barred entry to Turkish ministers. The last-minute emergence of the spat could boost Geert Wilders&#8217; anti-Islam Freedom Party. In the U.K., Prime Minister Theresa May could also trigger Article 50 to start the process of leaving the European Union as early as tomorrow.Oil weaknessA barrel of West Texas Intermediate for April delivery dropped below $48 a barrel in overnight trading before paring losses to trade at $48.45 by 5:29 a.m. Eastern Time. The drop in prices came as the U.S. oil rig count rose by eight to 617 last week, the highest level since September 2015. Investors had cut bullish bets on the commodity just prior to the dive below $50, with some analysts saying things will get worse from here. Markets flatOvernight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.8 percent, with Japan&#8217;s Topix index climbing 0.2 percent as traders await decisions from the Bank of Japan and the Fed. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.1 percent higher as of 5:41 a.m. while U.S. futures slipped 0.1 percent. Chinese improvementSenior officials said the Chinese economy is showing signs of improvement, with little risk of a hard landing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. seems to agree, as it upgraded its forecast on Chinese stocks. In the bond market, there are moves to make the country&#8217;s $9 trillion domestic debt market more global as the central bank pledged to create a &#8220;more convenient and friendly environment&#8221; for foreign investors. The head of China s currency regulator said in an interview that policy makers support opening the market to let money flow both in and out of the economy. 