RYK VAN NIEKERK: The Guernsey Financial Services Commission ended its investigations into David Cosgrove and Cobus Kellermann s operation in Guernsey earlier this month and will not be taking any further action against them or any of their related entities. This ends more than two-and-a-half years of speculation that the two were involved with a massive international fraud racket amounting to billions of dollars. On the line is David Cosgrove. David, welcome to the show, I assume you must be very relieved with the finding of the commission?DAVID COSGROVE: Yes, we are, after two-and-a-half years of this investigation they did say that there s no further action going to be taken against us. I just want to remind you that no action has been taken against us in any case, so no further action is just confirming that no action is going to be taken against us.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But what does that mean? The ruling is just the one-page document and it is in response to an affidavit of more than 100 pages by Paul Yabsley in which he makes very serious allegations of fraud. Don t you expect a more substantial document that clears you of these allegations?DAVID COSGROVE: I doubt if you ll ever get anything like that from a regulator but the affidavit was 1 000-odd pages, if I recall correctly, but basically it vindicates us because as we said all along, the affidavit wasn t correct and it contained a number of errors, I think I counted in excess of 100 errors in the document. So, again, it just vindicates us that after all the hard work there are no charges brought against us. I just always ask what is the taxpayer in Guernsey feeling at the moment because rumour has it that this cost Guernsey taxpayers 2.5 million.RYK VAN NIEKERK: That is significant. How involved were you in that whole process?DAVID COSGROVE: Very involved. We had good support from Werksmans in Cape Town and a lot of the documents were written by myself or Cobus Kellermann with the assistance of Werksmans in Cape Town.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Were there official hearings, what was the format of the investigation?DAVID COSGROVE: There was a hearing that took place earlier this year, Werksmans represented us and there was what s called a senior decision-maker or an arbitrator who made the decision or was supposedly going to make the decision either for the commission or in favour of ourselves. So there was a hearing, we all had to do submissions for the hearing, I think ours was 441 pages, where we corrected many of the allegations in Yabsley s affidavit and allegations after that.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Do you know whether this ruling can be appealed?DAVID COSGROVE: It can be, I understand, but we ll have to wait and see.RYK VAN NIEKERK: What is the status of your businesses in Guernsey?DAVID COSGROVE: Only one company is in the process of being liquidated and three are under administration but other than those four entities, I have nothing further in Guernsey.RYK VAN NIEKERK: What are you planning to do with those businesses, would you be able to kick-start them back into operation?DAVID COSGROVE: There s no chance of getting those businesses off the ground, it s best just to let them unwind and then eventually just be formally liquidated.RYK VAN NIEKERK: There are two more investigations on the go, one in Mauritius is of particular concern, what is the status of this investigation in Mauritius?DAVID COSGROVE: In effect we have appealed the ruling against myself and against RDL Management by the FSC, these have been delayed by the FSC by them applying for extensions in the court, so we sit there. My problem is they have made these rulings, they ve publicised them in the press, they ve given me no hearing and, secondly, they won t give me any information on how they came to these rulings. So without having a fair hearing and, secondly, having access to the information to defend myself it s virtually impossible. The one case was heard earlier this month and the FSC got a postponement and the second case was heard two days ago but I haven t had a full briefing on what happened at the case and I m only going to get that sometime next week. So from my point of view I m in a catch-22 position, I ve been banned for five years but I have no access to the information or the how and why they banned me.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Will the Guernsey decision have any impact on the investigation in Mauritius?DAVID COSGROVE: Hopefully it will be positive from my side because a lot of the FSC allegations in Mauritius stem from the allegations from Guernsey. So if there are no charges brought against us in Guernsey then Mauritius charges should be reduced significantly.RYK VAN NIEKERK: You referred to the PwC report earlier, that s the forensic report that was completed in 2015, but you haven t had access to it, why not?DAVID COSGROVE: The FSC told us initially that it s confidential to the FSC only. We ve challenged it and we re now waiting for the FSC to respond to us, we agree it s confidential but it s only confidential that it won t be released to the general public and it should be released to RDL Management, so we have a stalemate there as well.RYK VAN NIEKERK: So it has the potential, for this investigation at least, to drag on for quite a while yet and during that time a sword will continue to hang over your and Cobus Kellerman s heads.DAVID COSGROVE: Correct, it s one of the unfortunate things about this whole matter is everybody has relied on press articles around the world, the regulators have relied on press articles around the world and they ve based their decisions on these web blogs and press articles without doing proper due diligence on the businesses. They have always received financial statements, they receive monthly accounts, especially in Mauritius, they receive the NAV of every fund, they reasonably should know that there can t be any Ponzi scheme. PwC, we understand, vindicated us in the report, hence, the reason why the report hasn t been released to us.OffshoreAlert allegations discredited RYK VAN NIEKERK: Yes, those allegations originally came from the blog OffshoreAlert in the US, it s owned by David Marchant, but they were very serious allegations and caused several regulators to actually take immediate action, why was this the case?DAVID COSGROVE: To be honest, I don t know but one thing that I do know is that there are nine groups of investors around the world who have lodged deposits with attorneys to take action against various regulators and various web blogs and press reports. That s the only thing I m quite happy to say. But, remember, OffshoreAlert and Marchant makes his living out of web blogs and releases and conferences, so it s to his benefit to have the biggest story in the world but in my opinion it s been discredited and this is just before his conference coming up in November.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But the allegations are quite detailed and serious and stretches beyond your network of companies and platforms and include funds and operations of third parties that operate on your platforms, are you confident that no fraud was committed?DAVID COSGROVE: You must define the network because, for instance, Brighton SPC, which is the Cayman Island scheme, is deemed to be owned by me or RDL or Stonewood Holdings or, as the press calls it, Belvedere Group, in fact it was held for a very short time by RDL and then sold onto Stratton Asset Management. So although Belvedere management was the sub-administrator there were custodians, investment managers, investment advisors and directors who are completely unconnected to us and Stonewood has no shareholding in these businesses. So one must realise that a lot of businesses have been attributed to be owned by Stonewood, however, are not, likewise CWM in the UK, all the web blogs seem to say that Stonewood is a shareholder of CWM UK, it s not. So everything there has been attributed to Stonewood, myself and Cobus Kellerman but, in fact, we have no shareholding there. So one must separate what is actual information and what is misleading information. But in the schemes in Mauritius that we administered and in Guernsey we administered I am confident there is no fraud in any of those businesses. In fact, the Guernsey regulator has confirmed by their report that there are no fraudulent activities in Guernsey and the PwC report, I understand, has vindicated us as well.RYK VAN NIEKERK: The one in Mauritius?DAVID COSGROVE: Mauritius, correct.Role played by the deVere groupRYK VAN NIEKERK: Some of the allegations also seem to come from deVere Group and they have acknowledged in public that they have given information to David Marchant. What do you think deVere s role is in all of this?DAVID COSGROVE: Well, why would deVere have started the Ponzi scheme? Number one, to kill one of their biggest competitors, Stonewood, Belvedere Group, however you want to mention it, was one of their biggest competitors. But the second one is really the overcharging of fees and non-disclosure of fees and most of this pertains to the strategic growth fund, which was a sell on the Lancelot platform in Guernsey. The deVere Group or Nigel Green, or both of them, earned in excess of US$20 million in fees from strategic growth fund. So basically for the South African investor Grant Thornton in Guernsey, who are the administrators to global mutual fund or one of the Lancelot platform funds, said all the investors in the strategic growth fund were South African investors. If that s the case South African investors have paid many millions in fees, somewhere around R260 million in fees that were never disclosed to them or partially disclosed to them. So that is the reason why deVere has done that.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But is there no way you can, apart from defending yourself, actually take proactive action to try and mitigate these allegations? Have you contemplated, for example, defamation cases against some of the institutions that have criticised you or levelled the allegations against you?DAVID COSGROVE: Yes we have and, as I said earlier, there are nine groups of investors who are looking at this, including a group in the US, who are very interested in taking this matter forward and the attorneys there would like to do it at risk. So I agree there could be defamation charges, there could be other charges but we have also got a very specific process we want to follow and so far with Guernsey being in our favour we expect some sort of settlement from the Mauritian FSC at some stage. We ve been told off the record by certain people in Mauritius that they would like to settle with us because this is affecting Mauritius s business. So that s where we are there and then we can go and look at charges against people, defamation claims, damages and things like that.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Those nine groups of investors, were they invested in some of the funds that have been affected?DAVID COSGROVE: Yes that s correct.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Before these allegations were levelled and action was taken against several of the companies within the Belvedere Group how big was it?DAVID COSGROVE: Well, the way the $16 billion ponzi scheme came that was actually the assets under administration for the whole of Stonewood Group companies, the business made between $7 million and $9 million, so depending on what you believe, is that big or small, in my life it s significant.Open for businessRYK VAN NIEKERK: Do you have any business operations left?DAVID COSGROVE: Yes we do and we continue to operate them and some are doing well, some are doing very well and some are continuing on.RYK VAN NIEKERK: There s also a remaining investigation in the Cayman Islands, it s related to Kijani, what is the status there?DAVID COSGROVE: Again, as I said earlier, Brighton SPC and Kijani is not really geared towards myself or any of the Stonewood Group companies, as we weren t the shareholders. To be honest, I haven t kept up to date with what s going on in the Cayman Islands.RYK VAN NIEKERK: So from your perspective where do you believe this case is, do you believe that you ve been totally exonerated from these allegations based solely on the Guernsey decision.DAVID COSGROVE: The Guernsey decision assists us greatly and, as I said, I could defend myself properly in Mauritius if I had access to the information but I don t have access to the information, which has caused me to be suspended in many of the funds. So that is a major problem and we, along with Werksmans and Mauritian attorneys, are trying to get the information. So if we had access to the information I believe we would defend ourselves 100% correctly and we d be able to get all the charges dropped but without the information it s quite difficult. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Are there any investors who have blamed you for lost money?DAVID COSGROVE: Not that I m aware of. In fact, the investors have been incredibly supportive of us and I couldn t have asked for any more support from the current clients and the investors and the investment advisors. But I m not aware of any investors taking action against either me personally or any of the group companies.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But you said you have had more than $16 billion under management, who predominantly are these investors, are they South African-based or are they offshore?DAVID COSGROVE: All around the world. I use the term administration rather than management because we weren t the investment managers in most instances. Most of the work the so-called Belvedere Group or Stonewood Group did was administration for third parties. So in effect there are other people managing the majority of the money under all the schemes and all the businesses we had. But they are worldwide investors, let s put it that way.RYK VAN NIEKERK: But there were claims it was a massive ponzi, one of the biggest ponzi schemes seen in the world and one of the tell-tale signs of a ponzi scheme is investors jumping up and down asking where is my money and that hasn t happened at all.DAVID COSGROVE: Up to date I still have yet to receive a client complaint, I have yet to receive an investor saying it s a ponzi scheme.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Have investors lost money subsequent to the regulatory action being taken in the various jurisdictions?DAVID COSGROVE: There s a possibility of funds values that have fallen since March 2015 but I would prefer ja, there is a possibility but that is up for the administrators in Guernsey, being Grant Thornton, to either confirm or deny and in Mauritius it s up to the liquidators to confirm or deny that. I don t have access to the records or perfect information so it s very difficult for me to comment on that.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Well, David, those are my questions, is there anything else you would like to add?DAVID COSGROVE: No, other than really I must be grateful to our clients and investors and the investment advisors around the world for the support they have given me and Cobus Kellerman, without them it would have been very difficult.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Thank you, David. That was David Cosgrove of the Belvedere Group.