Despite regulatory pressure and growth in the passive market albeit off a low base there has been no meaningful drop in fees in the collective investment space over the past six years.An analysis of asset-weighted average total expenditure ratios (TERs) by Nedgroup Investments suggests that retail expenses have stayed broadly unchanged during the period (see chart below).Source: Nedgroup Investments Jannie Leach, head of core investments, says it is partly because the passive market does not represent a significant portion of the overall market yet. I do suspect that at some point as the market starts moving or a larger portion of the assets sits in passive, active managers will start cutting fees. According to Nedgroup s analysis the rules-based market (the collective term used for traditional market cap-weighted passive funds as well as smart beta and multi-asset funds that track indices) accounts for roughly 4% of the total assets under management in the South African market.A lower return environment may also put pressure on active managers to reduce fees.Leach says what the figures don t show is that a lot of financial advisors have compiled funds of funds as it allows them to negotiate lower fees. While this does not necessarily mean that the end client pays less, there is some reshuffling in terms of how fees are divided by the various players in the supply chain. That is definitely what s happened in the UK with RDR [the Retail Distribution Review] The end client is actually not paying significantly less than what they ve done before, but the fund manager is getting a lot less, the platform is getting a lot less and the advisor is actually getting more. South Africa is also in the process of implementing RDR.Over the longer term however, there has been a downward trend in fees, Leach argues.Compared to ten years ago, there are now investment solutions available where the advisor, platform and all other fees are included for less than 2%. A decade ago, this was often closer to 3%.Discretionary fund managers (DFMs) that are compiling fund of funds on behalf of advisors are using their scale to bring down costs.Leach expects margins for fund managers to start coming down as a result.He believes shifts in the market have largely been the result of regulation, especially as it relates to improved transparency.The Effective Annual Cost (EAC) standard, which outlines how costs in retail products are disclosed, was adopted last year. It allows financial advisors and investors to compare cost structures across various investment products in a transparent and standardised way.But since many of the large asset managers in South Africa have delivered good performance, most advisors are sticking with the brands they know. For bigger clients they will however reduce their advice fee, Leach says. In general the top clients are quite cost sensitive and they are also sensitive in terms of their value add. Although Leach doesn t expect a significant migration of wealthy individuals from traditional financial advisors to robo-advisors, he believes investors will be a lot more cost sensitive going forward, particularly if returns remain subdued.If a balanced fund delivers a nominal return of 9% and investors still have to pay 2% in fees, they will definitely start complaining, he says. I think the real fear is the scrutiny now going forward. With the market largely moving sideways over the past three years, fee pressure is a growing issue.Leach expects fees to compress and that the industry will eventually start having the important conversations . One of these discussions is around the retirement age. I think our whole retirement model is still very much archaic. 