What s in the news?South Africa&#8217;s headline consumer inflation slowed to 4.6% year-on-year in July from 5.1% in June, according to data released by Statistics South Africa on Wednesday last week.What is a CPI?In South Africa, Statistics South Africa (StatsSA) is responsible for calculating and publishing the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The index sets out the current prices of the average South African basket of goods and services in terms of the prices during the same period in a previous year. This is done to show the effect of inflation on purchasing power for consumers.The hypothetical basket chosen by StatsSA is made up of food, clothing, housing, transport and other regular expenses incurred by South Africans.Why should South Africans be aware of CPI increases or decreases?CPI tells us how much a given typical basket of goods and services costs at a certain time and by comparing the cost of this basket to historical data, we can calculate inflation (sustained price increases). It thus serves as the indicator for general price inflation in South Africa. If the CPI increases faster than wages, or the purchasing power of South Africans, the amount we can buy with our rand decreases and the average quality of life for South Africans is negatively affected.Price inflation also affects the savings and investments of South Africans. If CPI exceeds the interest earned on an investment, it can erode the amount of savings over time.On a personal note Although we have seen a slight easing in the inflation rate this month, consumers still need to be cautious with their spending and ensure their savings are keeping up with inflation. Many of us have idle money in various accounts that are not earning any interest and you could actually be losing money. Any savings or investments you have should keep pace with, or exceed, inflation.A good way to do this is using a vehicle that has voluntary premium increases , where you voluntarily increase your premiums to increase the returns on your investment. If you contribute as little as R500 per month with inflation-matching annual premium increases, you could boost your future investment value by as much as 29% after ten years*[1]. Work with a professional financial advisor to ensure that you have a holistic financial plan that targets wealth creation.[1] *Using inflation of 6% per annum.Lizl Budhram is head of advice at Old Mutual Personal Finance.