A panel of chief executives from the private healthcare sector responded to the immediate National Health Insurance’s priorities on Tuesday by stating that the time for theoretical discussion was over and that they were ready to engage in implementing projects and programmes. Speaking at the Hospital Association of South Africa Conference in Cape Town, advisor on NHI Vishal Brijlal outlined the priorities as maternal health, the screening and treatment of pediatric cancer, school health, care for the elderly and the disabled, and mental health screening.  However, concerns have been raised about the NHI’s White Paper and that it holds little practical detail on how a massive but well-planned overhaul of the current healthcare system will be achieved. Koert Pretorius, Chief Executive Officer of Mediclinic Southern Africa, said the private sector could offer its spare capacity to the public sector and could offer to treat a percentage of prioritised cases at a lower cost, and it could focus its attention on rural areas, in schools, and support or manage some primary healthcare clinics. Pretorius also introduced research conducted among a sample of people earning R6 400-R16 000 (approximately representative of a national population of about 7 million) that shows that this group, who has a high incidence of non-communicable diseases, is willing to pay up to R350 per month for primary care. This group could be covered for 45-50 conditions at this payment, which could represent 85% of basic healthcare needs. Dr Richard Friedland, Netcare Group Chief Executive Officer, stated that all efforts to build a sustainable society would stumble without a strong and sustainable healthcare system – and that the South African system is “incredibly” unequal, but that the widespread knowledge gained from local private hospitals international operations are invaluable to South African healthcare reform. As an example, he cited the case study of Netcare’s United Kingdom group reducing cataract treatments from more than a day to mere hours, using mobile clinics and doctors with deep experience in this procedure.  Dr Jonathan Broomberg, Chief Executive of Discovery Health, noted that the basic principal of universal healthcare is access to health care of decent quality, and that this right was being denied to many South Africans. “There are literally hundreds of variations of universal health care, and each system has to evolve to address current realities in the country the system is being implemented. The danger is we continue to have theoretical debates and do not do what we need. We are out of time and cannot afford to lose this opportunity,” said Broomberg.