In four years Aspen pharmaceuticals has transformed itself from a mostly South African manufacturer of generic medicine into a global provider of speciality drugs with a global manufacturing base and established distribution network. In the process it has doubled its revenue and increased profit before tax by a third.The company reported revenue up by 16% to R41.2 billion, profits before tax at R6.2 billion and normalised headline earnings per share up by 16% to 1 463 cents in the year ended June 30, 2017. That part of the journey is now complete, said Stephen Saad, Aspen CEO at the release of the results. The last four years have been quite a journey with lots of criticism along the way and some big shocks for instance having to write off our investment in Venezuela. But our team has come through and today we have a relevant portfolio of products and global manufacturing and distribution capability in place. Source: AspenAspen is now the world s biggest provider of anaesthetics, outside the US and the second largest provider of thrombosis products.Contributing to the results was the entry into China with the anaesthetics and thrombosis portfolios, supported by Aspen s largest regional sales force; and the positive turnaround in the South African pharmaceutical business, which saw positive growth of 7%, largely driven by a rebound in private sector business. I know the SA business is not big, but at a psychological level its important. It s where I started. I gave them a glare and the business is back up and sustainable, Saad says.While Aspen recorded positive growth across geographies and product segments, much of the company s revenue growth has come via recent acquisitions and critics argue that while revenues are growing impressively, core business growth is less impressive. In the latest results, the anaesthetic portfolio (acquired from Astra Zeneca in September 2016) generated R7 billion of the R41.2 billion turnover. Stripped out it leaves organic turnover at R34.2 billion, less than 2016 s revenue. For a company trading off a P/E of 20x, this could be considered pedestrian.Aspen also announced that it will acquire the rights to distribute and manufacture the same portfolio of products in the US, which was excluded from its previous Astra Zeneca deal. The price tag is a healthy $550 million (+$211m in performance-related milestones over the following two years), which will push Aspen s debt level up to the R47 billion mark. This is still within comfortable levels, the company says. Saad is aware of the criticisms around bottom line, organic growth and declining profitability metrics. This deal in particular, he says, is immediately accretive, and if included this year would have added $90 million to the bottom line.At the same time, management has invested time into making the business more efficient. Cutting costs out of the business will enhance profitability. Return on equity on normalised earnings of R6.7 billion hovers at 15.5%. And lastly, continual investment in scale and manufacturing capability will reduce costs and help the company gain market share. Saad quotes a Chinese proverb: A man grows most tired while standing still . We are going to invest R3 billion over the next year in new factories. Initially these are unproductive assets, but as you scale up operations the return on these assets increases and we add to margins and the bottom line. Aspen remains focused on emerging markets, with 54% of revenue driven out of sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, developing Europe, China and the Middle East and North Africa. We have put a lot of focus on Asia and Latin America. Our business model is volume-based, so emerging markets are important, Saad says. As a result of this focus we have seen good growth come out of China in the last year. The results show a company on the move, says Sean Ashton, CIO at Anchor Capital. &#8220;Judging from the strong performance in the second half, we expect the momentum to carry through into 2018.&#8221; There is just one concern, he says.&#8220;I&#8217;m not sure this a business that deserves to sit on a forward P/E of 20x. This is now a big beast and acquisitions need to be bigger if they are to move the needle.&#8221; To maintain its current P/E the company needs to grow at 20% plus, which at current levels seems a big ask.&#8220;What we know is that organic growth is slow. What we don&#8217;t know is how these various acquisitions are performing two or three years down the line.&#8221; The company declared a dividend of 287c per share.