In response to a request from KPMG, our group today met the leadership of KMPG South Africa, led by the new CEO Ms Nhlamu Dlomu, and with members of KPMG International. The meeting was without prejudice and we reserve our legal rights as parties who were adversely affected by the work of KMPG on behalf of its client, the South African Revenue Service (Sars). Today’s was a preliminary, first meeting. We appreciate the efforts by KPMG to finally afford those affected by the ‘forensic’ investigative report to Sars, the opportunity to be heard. At the same time, we remain convinced that KPMG’s conduct has caused immense harm to a number of experienced individuals, their reputations and careers as public servants, and it damaged institutions like Sars. We believe KPMG should make full and frank disclosure about their past conduct and institute credible initiatives to make right the harm that was caused to numerous individuals, to public institutions, to our country and the economy. In our view, the ‘findings’ of the KPMG ‘forensic report’ to Sars, became the basis for the aborted criminal prosecution of the former Finance Minister, Mr Pravin Gordhan, the former Sars deputy commissioner, Mr Ivan Pillay, and others, during October 2016. The decision by the National Director of Public Prosecutions to issue summons against these individuals, and against Mr Gordhan in particular, days before the October 2016 Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement, caused intractable economic harm and uncertainty. To date the allegations of that ‘a covert and rogue intelligence unit’ was established by Sars ‘in contravention of the rule of law’ have been substantially disavowed. As this aspect was the central focus of the ‘forensic report’ to Sars, we trust that this report will in future be withdrawn in full. As our rights are reserved, including the right to seek legal recourse, we will not make further public statements on this matter at this time. Ivan Pillay, Peter Richer, Yolisa Pikie and Adrian Lackay are former Sars executives. 