Few could argue that planning for one s financial future is a pleasant task. It requires asking some very tough questions, such as who will take care of ageing parents? How much money should we set aside for our child s education? Can I retire at 65? The list is endless. As a result, few people put a sound financial plan in place that can enable them to live without ongoing worries around money.This is where a skilled financial planner comes in to ask the difficult questions and assist in developing a detailed (and realistic) way forward. Smart financial planning allows you to relax and have a sense of comfort, no matter what is going on in your external environment, says Janet Hugo, a certified financial planner and director at Sterling Private Wealth. We develop Goal-Oriented Portfolios that enable clients to feel confident even when the market does wobble. Hugo, who is a top three finalist in the Financial Planning Institute s (FPI) Financial Planner of the Year Award for 2017, has developed a very unique and personalised approach to her work. She began her studies in financial planning after receiving some very bad advice from an insurance salesman , and simply wanted to empower herself to take control of her family s financial future. Hugo focused on estate planning and investment management, and soon decided to take on her own clients. From the beginning, I have had the privilege of treating clients the way I would like to be treated myself, she explains. I see my role as interpreting legislation, investments and financial services for clients. Ultimately, it s about creating a plan, not about selling products. Indeed, the local financial landscape is a complex one, with many hidden fees and a vast array of financial products to choose from. With very public debates around performance fees, the benefits of active versus passive investments, and the value of financial advisors, consumers understandably find it a difficult environment to navigate with any confidence. Clients often approach me with an investment problem , or issues around tax, says Hugo. Yet the real question is not about which unit trust to invest in, or which property to buy, etc, it s about really understanding the client and developing a long-term plan that they can stick to. She adds: Because of the personal nature of a clients financial and family situation, my role requires me to empathise and advise in a context that is not purely of a business nature. Peer review and ethicsGiven the notorious opacity of the financial world and also the impending changes with regards to legislation, Hugo places great value in continuous professional learning and on upholding strict ethical and professional standards. Every profession needs a professional body that upholds the standard of that industry, and that strives to improve the standards, notes Hugo. The FPI, for example, engages with the regulators (Treasury, Sars, FSB, etc) all the time. It s also important for the public to know that there s a professional organisation fighting for their interests. With regards to the Financial Planner of the Year Awards, she explains that peer review and recognition is hugely important for both financial planners and clients. It s helpful to check that you re not going off on your own tangent, she says. Also, our industry is growing and maturing, and it s wise to always have an independent view of the work we do . Brought to you by FPI.