It seems likely that there have been some difficult discussions around Naspers in Sanlam offices over the last few weeks. South Africa&#8217;s second largest insurer is not only an indirect holder of high voting A shares through its interest in holding company Wheatfields 221 , but its asset manager, Sanlam Investment Management, is also a large holders of the N shares traded on the JSE.At the Naspers AGM on August 25, the overwhelming majority of N shareholders voted against both the company&#8217;s executive remuneration policy and a resolution to place unissued shares under the control of directors. Both resolutions passed, however, because A shareholders supported them.Moneyweb&#8217;s analysis of the voting suggests that while Wheatfields voted in favour of the remuneration policy, it did not vote at all on the more controversial second resolution. If this is correct, it would be an indication of the difficult position Sanlam is finding itself in.Certainty of controlWhen asked by Moneyweb to explain its views on Naspers&#8217; dual-class share structure and the fact that N shareholders voted so overwhelmingly against these resolutions, Sanlam provided only a brief response: Sanlam s investment in Wheatfields Investments supports Naspers in their expansion drive into countries where certainty of control was and remains very important to Naspers. Through Naspers expansion drive, substantial value has been created for shareholders over a long and sustained period. Given our wide spectrum of investments and different client mandates, it is appropriate to keep our voting confidential. Strangely, Sanlam declined to answer a broad question about its views on the importance of good corporate governance.The argument that having certainty of control has supported Naspers&#8217; ability to create value for shareholders is widely recognised. As Mergence portfolio manager Brad Preston explained to Moneyweb earlier this year : There is an argument that Naspers would never be able to go through the long-dated investment cycle required to build their classifieds business if they were at the mercy of short term-focused stock market investors, and so the control structure is positive for the company in the long term, he said.However, he added that it does create the problem that shareholders have no real way to influence company strategy.Responsible investingThis was clearly demonstrated at last month&#8217;s AGM through voting patterns that also highlighted Sanlam&#8217;s own conflicts.Sanlam Investment Management is a signatory to both the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa, and the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). As such, it publishes its responsible investing policy on its website. Contained in that policy are two significant clauses.The first states that: We support one class of shares. We will vote against the creation of share classes with more (or fewer) voting rights, which mis-match voting and economic rights. We will be pragmatic in considering further issuance of existing classes, based on the nature and circumstances of the company and its shareholders.&#8221;Moneyweb asked Sanlam Investment Management how these two positions could be reconciled. We distinguish here between new issues and existing issues, the firm said. We will vote against the former, and are pragmatic regarding the latter, which we disfavour. In the long term, we are working towards an ideal of one class of share for all shareholders. If that&#8217;s the ideal, one has to question how Sanlam itself justifies its participation in the dual-class share structure at Naspers.Secondly, the Sanlam Investment Management policy states that it seeks to limit the powers of directors by voting against any issuance of shares for general purposes that amounts to more than 5% of shares in issue in any one year, either by way of shares issued for cash, or by placing unissued shares under control of directors.If it stayed true to this principle, Sanlam Investments must have voted against the resolution to place unissued Naspers shares under the control of directors as the dilution would have exceeded 5%. Unfortunately the asset manager does not publish details of its voting on individual companies, and would not reveal how it had voted in this instance. However its historical records indicate that placing unissued shares under directors&#8217; control was the major reason for it voting against capital resolutions at AGMs between the start of 2016 and mid-2017.These two clauses show that there is clear potential for misalignment between Sanlam itself and the principles Sanlam Investment Management claims to abide by. Alternatively, if Sanlam supports the position taken by its asset manager, that would put it in conflict with its fellow A class shareholders.As shareholder activist Theo Botha told Moneyweb, Sanlam is clearly caught in a tough spot. Sanlam should be feeling uncomfortable with the situation, said Botha. Asset owners and asset managers who are involved with the structure should be feeling uncomfortable because they can see that there is an issue here. 