Over the last ten years the top performing South African general equity fund, the Coronation Top 20 Fund, has delivered an annualised return of 12.63%. That is excellent long-term, inflation-beating growth.What most investors may not realise, however, is that its performance was surpassed by both of the top South African multi-asset flexible funds. According to figures from Morningstar, the Centaur BCI Flexible Fund returned 14.55% per year over the same period, and the PSG Flexible Fund 13.52%.What makes this particularly interesting is that both the Centaur and PSG funds, and also most other funds in the flexible category, are essentially equity funds. What makes them different is that they do not have to remain fully invested in the stock market at all times.Under the fund category rules, equity funds must always have at least 80% of their assets invested in equities. In practice, almost all of them will always be well above that as their mandate is to have full exposure to shares.Flexible funds, however, have no such restrictions. As the name implies, they can be entirely flexible in their asset allocation.A number of fund managers therefore prefer flexible mandates, as this allows them to manage their equity exposure. If they feel like the market is too expensive and there aren&#8217;t good investment opportunities, they can rather hold cash.What this means is that flexible funds are actually more conservative than pure equity funds. On the face of it, it is therefore paradoxical that the best of them have outperformed the top performers in the equity category.Risk and returnThe PSG Flexible fund is a good case in point. Since its inception 13 years ago, it has had an average cash exposure of 27%. That is a pretty cautious asset allocation. Yet, over the past decade, it has outperformed every equity fund in the country.What this shows is that just taking more risk is not the surest way to generate the best long-term returns. What is more important is managing that risk effectively.The manager of the PSG Flexible Fund, Shaun le Roux, explains that this is what makes flexible funds an attractive option. They have dual objectives that work in the investor&#8217;s favour. The first is to be very focused on risk management and making sure you are preserving capital, he notes. The second is to be taking a longer-term view and be growing that capital. Put another way, most flexible fund managers are looking to generate equity-like returns, but with lower risk, and reduced volatility. And their use of cash is critical for this. Over long periods of time cash is going to deliver inferior real returns relative to other more risky asset classes, Le Roux says. But we think investors are missing something if they think about cash only in those terms. Importantly, being able to move into cash when markets are expensive protects investors against big corrections. Flexible funds should not see as big drawdowns as pure equity funds when markets fall. The true value of cash only comes through from time to time, and when investors need it the most, Le Roux explains. It is a buffer against the rest of the portfolio that allows us to take risk with our equity allocation. Investor behaviourNot only does this create long-term return benefits, since smaller drawdowns are easier to recover, but it also gives investors a lot more comfort. The concept of risk is really important because when we have engaged with clients over the years we have found that their risk tolerance is often lower than they think it is, Le Roux says. They might sit with a financial advisor, fill in the risk questionnaire and come to an idea of what their tolerance is, but when we actually have a market correction, they find that their risk tolerance isn t as high as they thought. This is significant, because it is when markets fall that investors are most likely to make the wrong decisions. Because they see their fund values dropping, they panic and want to get out.There are many studies that have shown that this kind of client behaviour destroys value over the long term. By trying to time the market they see much lower returns than if they just stayed invested.Having that extra protection is therefore likely to lead to much better investor behaviour, and ultimately much better long-term outcomes.