There is much scepticism about the value of advice and financial service providers in general. Some bad brokers have earned the financial planning industry a bad reputation by not always acting in the best interest of their clients and charging ridiculous upfront fees. With the rise in direct online advice through robo-advisors, one needs to ask: How much value can a financial advisor provide? Do you get value for financial advice?A research report from the International Longevity Centre (ILC) in the UK titled The value of financial advice was released recently. The research shows that there is real value created for investors when they obtain financial advice. The report considered two main categories of investors: those with limited assets and affluent investors. Affluent investors who made use of advisors entered retirement with 17% more money in liquid financial assets and 16% more money in retirement funds than the wealthy group who were not advised. The non-affluent but advised group, accumulated 39% more capital in liquid financial assets and 21% more in retirement funds than the not advised group. By any measure this is a resounding endorsement of the value generated for investors by quality advisors. It is worth remembering that the capital these investors have accumulated is after all fees.Vanguard, the company that invented index investing, has also done a study on the benefits of having a financial advisor. According to their study, a good advisor adds about 3% per year in net returns for investors. To illustrate the impact of this difference, consider two investors who each have R10 million and decide to invest their money for ten years. One investor makes use of an advisor and the other manages his investments on his own. After ten years, the advised investor will have R8.9 million more.A good advisor helps you save moreThe ILC study also found that investors saved more and were more willing to invest in growth assets (like shares). The group who were wealthy and advised, were 6.7% more likely to save and 9.7% more likely to invest in equities compared to the wealthy group who are not advised. The non-affluent group who were advised, saved 9.7% more and were 10.8% more likely to invest in equities than the non-advised group. Not all financial advice is the sameWhile a good advisor can make a positive impact on your finances, a bad advisor can be very destructive to your wealth. It certainly pays you to do your research and to interview a few different advisors before choosing your advisor. Most importantly, you want someone who will not be focused on selling you products. Find out if the advisor earns a commission on what they recommend for you. If they do, ensure that the products recommended are suitable for your needs and not just advised so that they can earn an income. It is also very important to look for advisors that have the CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER accreditation as this tells you that the advisor has the required education, experience and ethical standards to provide advice.One size does not fit allThese studies certainly make the argument for using an advisor however, that does not mean that all investors should use an advisor for all of their investments. Some people are very capable of managing their investments on their own. There are some instances where advice might be beneficial even to those who are knowledgeable about finances and have the time to do their own research. Good examples would relate to tax compliance, estate planning and overall investment strategy. We find there are three broad categories of investors:We have certainly noticed an increase in requests for ad-hoc discussions from experienced investors who want a second opinion on their investment strategy. It is always worth finding out what services financial planners can offer. Many will offer you the option of an hourly consultation where you can obtain a second opinion without worrying about being sold a product you don t need. If you have more complex issues, you can request a detailed financial plan that is developed for you to implement on your own. Or, if you prefer to have someone manage your investments on your behalf, the studies show that this could be very beneficial to you, provided you choose the right advisor.