We will soon know how much of President Jacob Zuma s power base remains, as the ramifications of last week s cabinet blitzkrieg becomes apparent. This will be critical in the days and weeks to come, as it will shape the ANC s ability to address the fallout and limit the damage the economy is bound to suffer.The unprecedented public rebukes by ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize &#8211; as well as the many other criticisms by other senior ANC leaders &#8211; suggest that the ANC has the potential to take action and remove him from his position.The meeting of the ANC top six on Monday will therefore be critical and I expect that Zuma may face a cross examination about the sequence of events that preceded the announcement of the cabinet reshuffle.The dismissals of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas were not that big a surprise, as there had been a perpetual and escalating tension between the Treasury and the Presidency since Gordhan was reappointed.Gordhan also became a demigod minister of sorts, who personified the fight against corruption and State capture. Again, his dismissal was therefore not such a big surprise in an organisation that appears to suffer fools gladly.Two documentsThe sequence of events that preceded the announcement of the cabinet reshuffle smacks of desperation.There are two events that really stand out. The first is the revelation that Zuma based his decision to recall Gordhan from London on a very dodgy &#8216;intelligence report&#8217;.I had great sympathy with Gordhan when he held up this &#8216;report&#8217; during the press conference shortly after his sacking. He labelled it absolute nonsense , adding that it was sickening that it was used as justification for his dismissal. He is right.This is not the way to get the boot after surviving the coordinated onslaught from various Zuma-controlled prosecution agencies for more than a year. It would have been more dignified if he was fired without any justification.Expect to hear more about this report.But it is a second document that raises many more questions and reveals the extent to which Zuma may be compromised. It is the actual list of cabinet changes he presented to the ANC s top six during the eventful meeting on Thursday night last week.I nearly rolled my car when a deflated Mantashe said in a radio interview on 702 the next morning that the list was presented to the ANC top six, that it was compiled elsewhere and that he did not know who the author(s) were.Mantashe may just as well have confirmed that the list was printed on a Gupta letterhead.What now?This really is the smoking gun. Who compiled the list? Was it Zuma himself? Was it the Guptas? Was it someone else? Why did Zuma not attempt to discuss this with the ANC top six?Despite the ANC s top six meeting on Monday, don t expect swift action. The ANC isn t known to react quickly and the complexity of these developments will slow it down even more.This will add to the economic fallout, which will be severe. Don t be surprised at all if Moody s downgrades us on Friday. And certainly don t expect any big announcements of large investments in the local economy. There is just too much political noise around.It is possible though that Zuma has overplayed his hand out of pure desperation and he may just set in motion a more coordinated process to remove him from his position. At least this is a positive development.However, Zuma is a wily survivor and has overcome numerous scandals. He will fight for his and his benefactors political futures &#8211; of that there is no doubt. But hopefully the developments of the past week have carved away more political support and will ultimately prevent him from performing another Houdini act.