Dear Mmusi Maimane,I suggest you personally need a little more of Frank Underwood&#8217;s (a congressman in television series &#8216;House of Cards&#8217;) ambition and ruthlessness and a little less headless chicken from the ranks of political strategists inside your party.But seriously, and to be blunt, the decisions we have seen the Democratic Alliance (DA) make recently, suggest you guys have been sitting in planet Cape Town for too long.The ANC this week confirmed that it is incapable of self-correcting. Like little chicks falling into line behind the clucking mother hen, the National Working Committee absolved itself of any responsibility for holding the president to account. Zuma even managed to get the Integrity Commission to withdraw its letter. What a load of steaming BS, right? Your chief political opponent is building itself a house of cards, and is in the process of tearing itself apart. It is committing an act of mass political suicide of its own volition. Why do you want to insert partisanship into a matter that you can only benefit from?My recommendation would be to yank your motion of no confidence in the President from Parliament. Instead of bringing the motion of no confidence, you should let the anti-Zuma faction initiate the request &#8211; the ones that can see past 2019 &#8211; and I can only count a few, Mmusi. It&#8217;s never going to happen. They&#8217;ll toe the party line and you will be looking like a fool for the umpteenth time. Are you familiar with the definition of insanity Mmusi? And, if, by some act of God a faction of the ANC does get a motion off the ground, any assistance you offer them should involve some compromise &#8211; perhaps a commitment to holding fresh national elections by the end of this year, or taking nuclear off the table. The DA holds the cards, project power! If people accuse you of not being interested in what is best for the country, you can admirably point to a number of occasions you have tried to depose this president before. Make a blunt point: the ANC have enough votes on their own to depose the president. They made this mess, let them fix it. Then turn the question around. If people were so concerned about saving SA, why did they vote for the ANC in the last election? Jacob Zuma is not a creation of the last six months.Your starting position should always be that giving power to the DA is the only real way of effecting change in the country. This mess created by the ANC, and its complete inability to fix itself, is just more evidence of why the electorate needs to get it out. It&#8217;s not your job to save the ANC from itself. If Zuma stays, the ANC will be viewed as so toxic to the welfare of the country, that by 2019 the EFF won t even consider an alliance with them &#8211; never mind enter into one. But think big Mmusi. If Zuma stays you need to be thinking about a majority in 2019, not just a coalition.You have everything to gain and nothing to lose if the ANC doesn t get rid of him. So focus rather on what you can control developing and extending your record of good and successful governance in the Western Cape and the new metros you control, and selling the electorate on what you would do to get SA right if you get elected. Get ruthless, man. Go for the throat.Mmusi Maimane is the leader of the Democratic Alliance.