JOHANNESBURG It is time that political parties liberation parties in particular realise that their friends during liberation will not create jobs, a mining executive has said. Only business creates jobs, not labour, Ben Magara told a small audience hosted by Financial Mail and Sanlam Private Wealth on Wednesday.Magara said a relationship that worked like the CEO Initiative was really what could drive the economic growth required to create jobs.Without referring to the ANC in particular, Magara argued that most liberation parties had not realised that they possibly needed business more than labour to ignite economic growth.His comments come amidst a turbulent time for South Africa following president Jacob Zuma s decision to remove his respected finance minister Pravin Gordhan from his position. S&amp;P Global Ratings downgraded South Africa s sovereign credit rating to junk on Monday a severe blow for concerted efforts to get the economy on firmer footing.Magara said South Africa had entered an era of a very new normal and tough challenges . Those who will succeed in future have the ability to navigate what we are going through. So putting our tools down and saying let s just fix this one thing [the credit rating] I don t think is going to work. So we actually have to be able to navigate all the challenges at the same time, he said.While the long-term impact of the downgrade would be devastating for the country, business, labour, politicians and NGOs had to put their minds together to improve the situation, Magara said.Bob van Dijk, CEO of Naspers, said the group invested in over a 100 countries mainly in companies it believed could grow substantially over the next few years. Some of these companies were situated in markets like Brazil that were not having an easy time either and who also had a junk rating assigned to its sovereign debt. I don t think we should only focus on the rating issue. When Naspers deployed capital in markets like China or India, it considered whether the business opportunity was sound and whether it was comfortable that the regulatory regime could be trusted to provide proper protection for foreign investors. The money that was deployed had to be treated properly over time, Van Dijk added. I think the moment your investors get uncertain about that, then you are in the deepest possible trouble. I think the underlying symptom of can foreign investors trust the regime to take care of their interests long term is the real question that needs to be addressed. Van Dijk said South Africa could still attract foreign investment, but it had to fundamentally build confidence with investors that proved that it was going to treat them properly over the long term and not merely for the near future.Phuti Mahanyele, executive chairperson of Sigma Capital, said as citizens South Africans also had to take a more active stance. We can no longer sit back and wait for somebody else to do something. We need as citizens to think about how we can actively be playing a role in changing the situation that is affecting us and so we have to be involved in what is happening politically, she said.South Africa had to maintain investor confidence in the country by showing that it wanted to make a change. It is only when we stand up and show that we want to make a change and stop sitting down waiting for politicians to make a change, sitting down waiting for somebody else to make a change. We have to be the ones who take that stand and make the change. Mahanyele said although she wasn t advocating for a tax revolt, she wondered what would happen if the roughly 10% of the population that paid income taxes, didn t pay taxes for four weeks of the year. Now I m not saying that we must, but what if? The reality is that we have got power and we need to stop giving it to somebody else to speak to us. We need to start using it, otherwise we are the ones that are affected. 