Small cap company Taste Holdings has announced that it will sell off its luxury goods division, in a move management hopes will appease shareholders and analysts who never understood the rationale for a branded goods business that includes jewellery and fast foods.In the process it hopes to unlock value for long-suffering shareholders who have watched the share price fall 23% in the last year, as the group struggles to turn its big investments in Domino&#8217;s Pizza and Starbucks into profits.The restructure will see the group selling the division that includes Arthur Kaplan Jewellers, NWJ and Worlds Finest Watches, freeing the management team to focus all of its efforts on its food brands.The group will also raise a R120 million rights offer, 100% of which has been underwritten, that will raise equity for settling around R300 million of current debt and rolling out more stores. The current calendar year will see the group establish another eight to ten Starbucks outlets and 15 to 20 Domino s outlets.Taste CEO Carlo Gonzaga says the group has transformed in the past three years. Securing global licensing agreements and undertaking various acquisitions has seen Taste shift from being a franchisor of local brands to a predominantly corporate-owned-store business with a mix of global and local brands. We have ended up with two businesses that are really disparate. One is a start-up that should be debt free and one is a mature business that is a bankers dream they require very different funding models, says Gonzaga. We can see lots of opportunity in food but it will require immense amounts of focus and lots of capital to unlock these. The board believes Taste must concentrate its future investments and focus efforts on rapidly growing the food business. A recent strategic review reflected the businesses will be best served by having separate shareholders and management teams to independently achieve their full potential, he says.Since 2010 the luxury goods division has boosted revenue from R155 million to R570 million. In the 2010 financial year, earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation (Ebitda) was R24 million. This had risen to R69 million in the 2016 year.At this point Gonzaga is loathe to put a public value to the business. The process of looking for a buyer has begun. The key will be what value they realise for the Luxury Goods division and at this stage we don t have a lot of clarity on this, says San Naidoo, an equity analyst with Sanlam Investment Management.Gonzaga is is confident that the strategy is the right one. &#8220;For the first time we have a good view on where Starbucks and Dominos can go. The Dominos launch [at the end of 2014] was volatile and it cost us a lot, says Gonzaga. We have stabilised the business and are now ready to reinvest.&#8221;The food division has proved to be a drag on profitability and returns as they have had many environmental and operational issues, particularly with the roll out of Dominos. The message of wanting to accelerate the roll out could move the division to a greater level of scalability, which is positive, but could be accompanied by the typical j-curve effects that we have seen in the food division over the past few periods, says Naidoo.He adds that the stability of the luxury good division has been a major positive for the business in the past few years as the food division has battled. &#8220;Thus I wouldn t necessarily view the sale as a positive as the diversification has helped them. Again it depends on the price achieved.&#8221; Since the two divisions have remained decentralised with the only centralised function being capital allocation, Gonzaga says the sale will not affect the operations of either division. It is now the time to double-down on our food business and similarly allow the luxury good business, which we have built into a strong player in this segment, to achieve its potential through its own, focused shareholding and management, he says.Gonzaga says the luxury goods business will also operate normally during the transition. The rights offer may see the underwriter Sean Riskowitz or one of his companies acquiring more than 35% of the Taste voting rights. Gonzaga says while legally Riskowitz will be obliged to make an offer to existing shareholders, he has no intention of obtaining control of Taste and requires the mandatory offer to be waived as a condition of the underwriting agreement.The R226 million raised in the last rights offer was used to rollout Starbucks, finalise the conversion of Domino s Pizza and grow the Arthur Kaplan business.The need for another rights issue so soon after the last necessitates the need to believe management can execute and stem the cash burn in the business. I m a bit sceptical at this stage and would prefer to see tangible evidence that the business is improving operationally, says Naidoo.On a positive note, management focus and attention could be keys to developing a scalable operation and unlocking value, he says.Further details will be released on Sens. The company reports financial results at the end of May.