The US launched dozens of missiles at Syria after accusing the regime of Bashar al-Assad, a Russian ally, of killing scores of civilians with poison gas, an act President Donald Trump called an affront to humanity. Tonight I ordered a targeted military strike on the airfield in Syria from where the chemical attack was launched, Trump told reporters late Thursday at his Florida club, where he hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping. It is in the vital national security interest of the United States to prevent and deter the spread and use of deadly chemical weapons. President Vladimir Putin condemned the American attack as an act of aggression against a sovereign state. Russia responded by suspending an accord with the US designed to avoid incidents in Syrian airspace.The predawn strikes were aimed at hangars, planes, depots and air-defense systems at the Shayrat Airfield, according to the Pentagon. The airfield, between Damascus and Homs, was hit with 59 Raytheon Co. Tomahawk missiles fired from the USS Porter and USS Ross, two destroyers in the Mediterranean. Syrian state TV put the death toll from the US bombings at six, while a UK-based opposition monitoring group, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said tens of government troops were wounded. The government in Damascus said earlier that its pilots blew up what turned out to be a rebel-controlled chemical weapons stockpile on April 4. Russian officials on Wednesday said it was too soon to assign blame for the deadly incident.The task of military planners was made more complicated by the presence of Russian forces that are in Syria to support Assad against rebel groups that include Islamic State and al-Qaeda, as well as some militias backed by the US. The Pentagon notified the Russians before the attack, and US military planners took precautions to minimize risk to Russian or Syrian personnel located at the airfield, spokesman Captain Jeff Davis said.Russian forces so far have not been placed at risk by the US actions, according to Frants Klintsevich, the deputy head of the defense and security committee in the upper house of parliament. But if we see a threat to our bases or our servicemen, we of course will put the airspace in order, he said by phone. Russia has advanced air-defense systems in Syria to protect military assets, including a port and an airbase. Barbaric Act The decision to attack marked a stark reversal for Trump. During the election campaign, he faulted past US leaders for getting embroiled in conflicts in the Middle East. But the president said this week that the deaths of children among the more than 70 killed in the gas assault, images of which were broadcast worldwide, crossed beyond red lines and changed his thinking. It was a slow and brutal death for so many, Trump said Thursday. Even beautiful babies were cruelly murdered at this very barbaric attack. No child of God should ever suffer such horror. It was also a departure from the approach of his predecessor, former President Barack Obama, who had weighed a military response in 2013 after Assad s use of sarin gas killed more than 1 000 people near Damascus. Although Obama had defined the use of chemical weapons as a red line, he refrained from military action after the parliament in the UK, a crucial ally, declined to participate and public support in the US waned.Instead, the US and Russia negotiated an agreement for Assad to surrender his chemical weapons stockpile, an accord the Syrian government appears to have breached. The US has high confidence that the attack this week used a chemical nerve gas consistent with sarin, according to an American official who asked not to be identified discussing the findings.Blasting RussiaSecretary of State Rex Tillerson blasted Russia s support for Assad and said Moscow hadn t kept up its end of the agreement four years ago that was supposed to clear Syria of chemical weapons. Clearly Russia has failed to deliver on that commitment from 2013, Tillerson, who s scheduled to go to Moscow for talks next week, told reporters in Florida after Trump spoke. So either Russia has been complicit or Russia has been incompetent in its ability to deliver. Tillerson said other governments in the region were supportive of the US action, which he called a proportional response directed at facilities used in the chemical attack.The attack was launched just as Trump wrapped up his dinner with Xi at the president s Florida resort, their first face-to-face meeting. The main topics include how to respond to North Korea s attempts to refine missile and nuclear weapons technology. Trump and Tillerson have made clear that the US has lost its patience with attempts to negotiate with North Korea.China s LeverageChina is the only nation with leverage on North Korea, and Trump s decision to strike quickly in Syria is likely to color their discussions. The Chinese now perhaps more than before will realise that this president can decide to take dramatic action, said Dennis Wilder, who was senior director for Asia on former President George W. Bush s National Security Council and a China military analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency. It ups the stakes for the Chinese on North Korea. The strikes on Syria jolted financial markets, with oil jumping more than 2% in New York and London to the highest in more than a month. The yen and gold advanced, while the Russian ruble and Turkish lira weakened.Back when Obama was deciding whether to attack in Syria, Trump repeatedly tweeted that the US shouldn t get bogged down there, and that Obama shouldn t act without approval from Congress. Trump didn t get such a formal authorisation vote before Thursday night s strike.Senator Ben Cardin, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said the strikes were a clear signal that the United States will stand up for internationally accepted norms and rules against the use of chemical weapons. Congress, UNBut he said in a statement that any longer-term or larger military operation in Syria by the Trump administration will need to be done in consultation with the Congress, a position echoed by House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi.Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham, who ve long urged action against Assad, said the strikes sent an important message the United States will no longer stand idly by as Assad, aided and abetted by Putin s Russia, slaughters innocent Syrians with chemical weapons and barrel bombs. But support for Trump wasn t universal. Michigan Representative Justin Amash, a member of the conservative Republican Freedom Caucus, said in a tweet that the attack was an act of war. Atrocities in Syria cannot justify departure from the Constitution, which vests in Congress power to commence war. Syria s six-year civil war has only become more complex in recent years. Russia intervened on Assad s behalf in late 2015, adding to a fight that now includes Iranian, Turkish, Syrian and extremist forces.At the United Nations, diplomats privately debated a resolution that would condemn the poison-gas attack and demand access to Syrian air bases by UN investigators. Russia would probably veto that measure after putting forward a separate measure which wouldn t compel Syria to provide such access.At the Security Council on Wednesday, US Ambassador Nikki Haley stood up at her desk to show diplomats photos of dying children gasping for air. She accused Russia of pushing a false narrative that blames rebel forces for the attack, and issued a new warning. 2017 Bloomberg