&nbsp;NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Money Expo 2017 will once again be hosted at the Sandton Convention Centre on July 28 and 29. Now in its third year it brings together experts in finance, investing and entrepreneurship. Today we have one of the speakers, Tshepo Kgapane, who is the founder of Youth Money Circle. Tshepo, thank you so much for your time.TSHEPO KGAPANE: Thank you so much for the invite, always appreciated.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Tell us about Youth Money Circle, what is it all about?TSHEPO KGAPANE: Youth Money Circle is an idea and concept that I came up with about three years ago. I looked at my friends, I looked at my family, I looked at my fans on radio and on TV and I looked at the way that young people are so reckless with money, we makes some crazy decisions.I just felt like we need to be better educated when it comes to finances and when it comes to money but I needed to come up with a way to do it that wasn t going to be overbearing on young people because we don t want to be told what to do.We want to engage, we want to debate and we want to have a conversation about money.So I decided to create this platform called Youth Money Circle where I can get my friends and people to sit around me in a circle and to have debates around money. Hopefully within the debates and conversations we could come up with strategies and with solutions on how do we skill ourselves from a financial literacy point of view and where have people got it wrong and where have people got it right.That s how the idea basically came about. So it s an idea of just sitting around in a circle and having this debate and discussion about money without it being a workshop and somebody telling us what to do, without it being a long-winded thing, just a nice conversation among young people.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What s the feedback thus far?TSHEPO KGAPANE: The feedback has been amazing, I think even more so this year because we ve added the website and the blog posts and it s like nothing before because I m literally writing from my experience. So, for instance, there s an article that I have out at the moment where I talk about going out and clubbing, how everybody who is at the club is getting paid except for you at the club, the bartender is getting paid, the DJ is getting paid, the club owner is getting paid, the alcohol distributor is getting paid, even the guy who is helping you to park your car is getting paid. You are the only person at thecClub that night spending money.I m not saying don t party &#8211; I m just saying think about certain things, look at things differently, could you perhaps be making money while partying at the same time? Those are the kinds of conversations we need to have with young people. So the response has been phenomenal, it s been absolutely amazing.&nbsp;Early days of business &nbsp;NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What were the early days like when you had this idea, putting it down on paper and now you have to get the partners and people who are actually finance experts, so to say, to get on board with you and support you, what was that like?TSHEPO KGAPANE: It was unbelievably difficult and the reason it was difficult is I think it was very difficult for corporates to let a young person to come in and to say to them I m a young person, I m not going to wait for government, I m not going to wait for corporates, I m going to come up with a solution within the group of friends I have. Let us as young people come up with solutions and then ask for help thereafter. It was hard to convince certain people of the idea, of the concept and to see the value in that. So to this day there are some people who have said no, there are some that have said yes and there are some that have said maybe.So those who have said yes have supported the events, they ve supported the website, they ve supported the blogs, they ve supported the growing number of young people who want to learn more about money. We have a guy, who is 15 years old, who has just started trading. For a 15-year-old to see the need to invest R100 it s a big thing, so it s that change. So if we can change one person s life then for me that s enough. So we re still looking for support, we re still convincing people. That s been the journey so far.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: When you look at your upbringing what was the relationship you had with money growing up?TSHEPO KGAPANE: I had such an interesting one [laughing] because my parents are very traditional and old school and they taught me a lot about money directly and indirectly. They helped me to open my first savings account when I was 15 and every time I wanted something they would give me pocket money and then I must save the pocket money. So the idea of saving began that way. They always taught me to look towards the future, to always plan and I think whether they knew it or they didn t know it at the time they were actually building this idea of delayed gratification and understanding that things take time and if you want to build wealth it takes time, it takes a sacrifice.It s like a seed, you ve got to be willing to plant it and then at some point in time the wealth, which is the actual tree, the leaves and the fruits, come at some point in time. So my parents played a massive role.&nbsp;Start saving early&nbsp;NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I was doing some research on you and you re in that industry that always tends to have an ominous cloud around it in terms of as you get older people then find out no, a certain person didn t have investments or savings or medical aid or those kinds of things and then people look back and are saying things like but he was making such a great career, he was making so much money, where did all the money go. It s probably the same thing for football players as well, where I think only recently we re now seeing them getting financial advisors, the clubs are very strict about the kind of money they spend. Talk to us about how important it is to start now so that you don t have the regrets in your 50s and 60s.TSHEPO KGAPANE: I think in an industry that I m in, football is one of them and radio, for instance, is one of them, we work as contract workers, so there are no benefits, there s no medical aid, you ve got to invest the money yourself. So it starts with you and it starts with you understanding that you need to plant a seed at some point in time and then you ve got to be willing to wait for it to grow.The mistake that we make as young people and soccer players and DJs and artists and so on is that we want to start saving when things are bad, when you should be saving when things are good. If you re earning R100 000 a month start saving, you re not going to be earning R100 000 a month ten years later or even five years later.So I think we need to change our mindset and it comes with a delayed gratification, it comes with sacrifice and the more we speak about it, the more we sit down as young people and debate, argue and the more we hear from people who have made mistakes.That s the important part because with money you can t learn on the go because if you learn on the go you are losing money. So I think those are the key things that we need to start doing and we need to start thinking about.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I suppose it also comes with discipline, when you re a young person and there are all sorts of activities happening on the weekend, people are constantly going out to restaurants, clubbing and then there s that pressure of the kind of car you drive, depending on what job you do. Then you get people who have car installments that cost a lot more than their rent and all sorts of silly mistakes that we make as young people. What are some of the common mistakes you have seen amongst your peers in terms of their spending habits?TSHEPO KGAPANE: I ve seen some crazy things, I know somebody who has just bought a new BMW but they don t have any food in their fridge and I think but, friend, what do you mean, you are cruising in the streets but you re hungry? For me that doesn t make sense. So the car is a big thing, particularly with the payments and the balloon payments, which we don t know enough about as young people.Credit cards is a big thing, I ve seen so many people balling, buying bottles of champagne in the club and I think but you ve got to pay for that at some point in time, it s money that you technically haven t earned yet. I ve seen people buying a lot of clothes, a lot of shoes. I ve seen people investing in things like MMM, which I ve spoken out about a lot: you are not going to be a millionaire in two days.So I think those are some of the common mistakes that young people make and one of the big ones is not doing research. I don t think as young people we read enough, we Google enough and we ve got all this technology and we don t do it enough. So I think the cars, the credit cards, the loans, the clothes, being in the club and feeling this unnecessary pressure to make other people happy. Those are some of the things that I think are key.&nbsp;Make money while partying &nbsp;NASTASSIA ARENDSE: You were talking earlier about your blog post where you wrote an article about how one can make money while you re partying. That got me curious, how do I make money in a club, everybody but me is making money, how do I make money when I ve just walked into a party?TSHEPO KGAPANE: I ll give you an example; I recently met a group of girls who have started a business of slush cocktails. The idea is to have a slushy with a little bit of a kick and you can get a kick in the club. So imagine selling those slushes in the club. Now all of a sudden you re still dancing, you re having a fun and your drinking but you ve got the slush and you ve got a business running.So for me it was more about the mentality and the change in attitude, as opposed to the actual business model itself. It s just to start to find ways to start owning and to start creating wealth. There are so many things happening in the clubs now where people are making an absolute killing.I have a friend who is now doing Wi-Fi in clubs, it s never been done before. Every club wants to trend, every club wants to say this is what s happening at our club, this is the event and there s the Wi-Fi. There are so many things within the groove. So it s just that change in mentality that we need to have as young people.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Back to Youth Money Circle, how do people get involved, when do you guys meet, how does it work?TSHEPO KGAPANE: This year we are looking to have four main events, one at the end of April , two during July, which is Savings Month and one towards the end of the year. People can go onto our website www.youthmoneycircle.co.za and we update them in terms of where we are going to be, who the speakers will be, what the topics will be and we also do that through sending out the blogs.So we re big on social media, we like being on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. That s where the people are. We try to figure out what are some of the challenges that young people have and then we get speakers on topics around that and those are the plans for the rest of the year for us.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: What s your Instagram handle?TSHEPO KGAPANE: @YMC_RSA That s for Twitter as well, you ve got to be everywhere, you ve got to be on WhatsApp.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Tshepo Kgapane, he s the founder of Youth Money Circle. Tshepo Kgapane will be speaking at the Money Expo, to register click here