Last month Nedgroup Investments announced that it would no longer be allowed to publish the performance history of its Managed Fund. This followed a change in investment strategy that restricted it to only investing in South African assets.Until this point, the fund had been able to invest up to 25% offshore. However, Nedgroup Investments had to make a change to accommodate both this fund and its new balanced fund, which are both managed by Truffle, in the same unit trust category.As part of this process, the Association for Savings and Investment South Africa (Asisa) had to review the change. Asisa&#8217;s fund classification standing committee made the decision that as this was a material change in investment policy, the fund should drop its performance history and start from a clean slate.This was a controversial decision because the fund had been through an extended period of underperformance. Nedgroup Investments had replaced RECM as the managers of the portfolio in November 2015 at a time when the Managed Fund was the worst performing unit trust in the South Africa multi-asset high-equity category over one, three, five and ten years. In Truffle&#8217;s first year of managing the fund, it lost another 10.3%.Many people therefore saw the dropping of the performance history as a whitewash. They argued that even though the manager had changed, Nedgroup Investments should still be judged on the past decisions it had made. In our opinion the Nedgroup Investments Managed Fund history should reflect the choices of Nedgroup, argued Gerbrandt Kruger, Investment Analyst at Morningstar. They built their brand by finding the best managers for their funds, and the performance track record should reflect these decisions both the good and the bad ones. Many investors have expressed similar sentiment. They feel that this is an example of the industry looking after its own interests ahead of those of investors.Some even highlighted the fact that there have been examples in the past of funds making similar changes and being allowed to keep their performance histories. Most notably, when the Allan Gray and Investec Equity funds decided to allow offshore assets in their portfolios, Asisa did not make a similar decision.However, Asisa&#8217;s senior policy adviser, Sunette Mulder argued that the cases are different. In the case of Nedgroup Investments, the change in investment policy removed the portfolio manager s ability to move offshore, making it more restrictive, she explained. It is unlikely, therefore, that the Nedgroup Investments Managed Fund would have been able to replicate past performance, whether good or bad. In the cases of Allan Gray and Investec, however, what took place was different. For a start, the supplemental deeds of both funds already allowed them to invest offshore.Investec only applied to ASISA for a benchmark change as it would now be including foreign assets. There was no fundamental change to the portfolio&#8217;s investment objective or investment process, Mulder said. The committee was of the view that the portfolio s performance track record remained representative of how the portfolio would be managed after the benchmark amendment. Allan Gray&#8217;s application was slightly broader as it not only asked for a change in benchmark but also a change in portfolio manager and alterations to its supplemental deed to allow the use of derivatives. However, Asisa&#8217;s view was the same. The fund s investment policy as contained in the supplemental deed had always made provision for investing offshore, Mulder said. The committee therefore agreed that the requested changes did not materially affect the way the fund was managed and that the performance history should therefore be retained. It is important to note that even if these portfolios had applied for an actual change to their investment objectives allowing them to invest offshore, the committee would have allowed them to retain their performance history, she added. This is because with a move to a wider mandate the fund manager can still replicate the performance history of the fund, while restricting a mandate makes it more difficult to replicate historic performance levels. She also argued that the committee that makes these decisions is independent. The committee consists of one Asisa point person and senior industry representatives, she noted. This means that each application for classification or reclassification is considered by the applicant s competitors. This ensures that applicants are not given a competitive advantage. However, questions still remain. Both investors and many in the industry are concerned that there do not seem to be consistent and coherent rules when it comes to deciding when a track record should be kept. Why is it so important, to drop the performance record in the event that a mandate is changed, but not when a fund manager is changed? asked Pankie Kellermann, the group CEO of Gryphon. Is this not an easy way for a management company to escape a bad track record? Don&#8217;t they ultimately need to take responsibility for the mandate promoted to clients in the past? Put differently, why would investors be in a better position by merely changing the mandate? he added. Is a change in fund manager not usually more significant than a tweak in mandate? Particularly considering that a genuine material change will in all probability not be allowed, either by investors or the Financial Services Board? 