Barclays Plc (Plc) has reported a goodwill impairment of 884 million against its holding in Barclays Africa Group.In a shareholder presentation of its first quarter results for the 2017 financial year, Plc noted that the impairment was largely driven by a 17% decline in the share price of JSE-listed Barclays Africa.Per International Financial Reporting Standards related to Non-cur rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis con tin ued Op er a tions (IFRS5,) the impairment calculation was based on the difference between the carrying value of a disposal group and its fair value less costs to sell, Plc said.Source: Barclays PlcStill, Plc said the underlying operational performance of the Africa Banking segment was resilient . Its profit before tax, excluding the impairment, increased to 325 million, up from the 231 million reported in the first quarter of 2016. Including the impairment, the segment posted a loss of 685 million after tax.Source: Barclays PlcPlc reported a loss of 801 million attributable to Africa Banking for the three months ended March 31, 2017. In a Sens announcement, Barclays Africa said the reporting of Africa Banking s results within Plc is affected by various cost and other overlays, consolidation and other adjustments, including increased minority interests following Plc s reduced shareholding in the second quarter of 2016 .Barclays Africa said revenue growth was weighed down by rand strength during the first quarter.It said reduced lending caps per the South African National Credit Act, as well as regulatory changes in Kenya and a higher proportion of Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB) lending, contributed to an annual decline in the group s net interest margin.On a year-on-year basis, Barclays Africa s return-on-equity ticked up as credit impairments related to CIB in South Africa and rest of Africa banking decreased.Barclay s Africa maintained its guidance for the 2017 financial year. We continue to expect low to mid-single digit loan growth, with CIB growing faster than RBB and South Africa lagging the rest of Africa s growth in constant currency, it said.Just One Lap s Simon Brown said the biggest challenges facing Barclays Africa and its peers are South Africa&#8217;s sovereign ratings downgrade to junk and increasing compliance burdens. The direct hit from the downgrade will be modest because the banks are very well capital. Those that are raising any money, if at all, are doing so in rands and that will cost them a bit more. The side hit is going to come from weaker consumers but that is 2018 s issue.The banks bad debt levels are at very low levels compared to the past. So the hit is unlikely to be anywhere near as bad as 2008/2009, he said.Plc said its Barclays Africa selldown remains on track and expressed confidence in executing the selldown. It is currently awaiting approval for the separation arrangements already agreed with local management. It previously stated that the selldown and regulatory deconsolidation could take between one to two years. 