It has been a slow start for Poland-focused property company Echo Polska Properties (EPP) in articulating its corporate strategy to income-chasing investors since its JSE listing seven months ago.Underscoring this is its share price performance, which has fallen (along with other offshore counters in SA s real estate sector) by 21% since September last year.But the company, with a market capitalisation of R10.7 billion, plans to reposition its property investments towards Poland s retail market to turn its fortunes around.Read: Market warms to Echo Polska after glacial startEPP owns a property portfolio valued at 1.6 billion comprising of 15 shopping centres and nine office properties in boroughs such as Warsaw, Krak w, Szczecin, Zamo and W oc awek. By value, 72% of its property portfolio is made up of retail properties and 28% office properties.It will reduce its exposure to the office sector by selling three office properties in 2017, achieving sales proceeds of 50 million to invest in shopping centres.EPP s retail assets are located in under-serviced towns, with a catchment area of more than 100 000 people and in proximity to train lines that help feed foot traffic to its centres.CEO Hadley Dean says shopping centres in Poland have bigger opportunities than office properties, which have limited rental growth due to oversupply in the market. The company has two major retail developments in northern Warsaw.It recently acquired a 70% stake in Galeria M ociny, where bulk earthworks have begun for a 81 900m mixed-use development (in which 10 000m is dedicated to office space). The plan is to develop a four-level shopping centre, which is already 50% let to tenants including fashion retailers H&amp;M, Zara, Polish toy retailer Smyk and others. Residential property developers will develop 10 000 apartment units per year over the next ten years near Galeria M ociny.Another project is the Towarowa 22, the 110 000 m mixed-use development and is under construction for the next five years. The zoning of the land will be finished this year and 30 000m of retail space is earmarked to be leased to retailers including H&amp;M and fashion retail group LPP, which owns Polish brands Reserved, CCC shoes &amp; bags and Cropp. Upon completion, the retail component of the development will be the largest shopping centre in Warsaw.Its other existing shopping centres will be refurbished to add more fashion retailers, entertainment arcades and food courts.Echo Polska Properties Galeria Echo shopping centre in Kielce, Poland. Echo Polska Properties Galeria Mlociny development in Warsaw, Poland. Echo Polska Properties Wzorcownia W oc awek shopping centre in W oc awek, Poland. Echo Polska Properties Twierdza K odzko shopping mall in K odzko, Poland Towarowa 221 is a 110 000 m mixed-use development and is under construction for the next five years. EPP CEO Hadley Dean. Warsaw is considered to be a prime town for shopping centre developers, with average rentals commanding more than 30/m per month retailers are signing average lease terms of five years and a vacancy profile of less than 2%. Rental growth is indexed to inflation, which is expected to be 2% in 2017.EPP has strategic partnerships with Polish developers Echo Investment and Griffin Real Estate for its developments. Says ClucasGray portfolio manager Brendon Hubbard: It is very important to have local knowledge and experience on the ground in Poland. The EPP management team has significant depth spanning between 15 and 20 years each. Poland s retail market is still recording sales growth on the back of rising consumer spending and wages, with a consumption-led economy growing by 3%, says Marek Belka, who was Poland s former prime minister and now serves as EPP s independent non-executive director.Belka adds that government s social welfare grants policy, which provides financial grants to households with more than one child, is expected to provide impetus to consumer spending.Investment analyst at Metope Investment Managers Kelly Hook says the grants policy will boost the performance of retail assets in Poland. Politics may be transitory as the current [right wing] government is not popular. The social grants, however, are likely to stay [and] would be unpopular to reverse, she says.Read part one here. The writer was a guest of EPP in Poland.