An estimated 30 000 protestors of all ages and races from all walks of life walked from the historic Church Square in the heart of Pretoria on Friday to the seat of government in the Union Buildings to tell the president of the Republic that it is time for him to step down.By the time they arrived there the news broke that apart from ratings agency Standard &amp; Poors, Fitch has also downgraded South Africa to sub-investment status, commonly known as junk status.This is widely seen as the result of President Jacob Zuma s decision to fire former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas as part of a widespread cabinet reshuffle on March 31. Calls for Zuma s resignation have since grown and reached a fever pitch with protest marches all over South Africa on Friday.The speakers in Pretoria included leading politicians, religious and traditional leaders and unionists. Among the supporters Moneyweb noted FNB CEO Jacques Cilliers, while many travelled by Gautrain from Johannesburg to Pretoria for the event.The crowd shouted slogans like: Zuma must go! , Hands off South Africa, hands off! , We re not for sale , and Hamba tsotsi, hamba! aimed at Zuma and the Gupta family, which is widely seen as the force behind Zuma looting state resources.DA leader Mmusi Maimane said South Africa is not a junk country, it has a junk president.Sipho Pityana leader of SaveSA called on Zuma to resign.He said Zuma is a captured man and as a result his organisation, the ANC is also captured, until they get rid of him .He accused Zuma of continuously making plans to sidestep the law instead of enforcing it and said Zuma is trying his best to prevent the appointment of a judicial commission of enquiry into state capture.Pityana called on the ANC to recall Zuma and on parliamentarians to support the vote of no confidence in Zuma to be tabled on April 18, irrespective of which party tables the motion.He said South Africa will not allow the Guptas to appoint any more ministers and said SaveSA is determined to reverse the coup d&#8217; tat (cabinet reshuffle) that happened in the middle of the night. He warned protestors that Zuma is going to resist with everything and said the event on Friday should only be the beginning of the campaign to get rid of Zuma.Union leader Zwelinzima Vavi said we made a mistake by electing a crook (at the ANC s Limpopo conference) who was facing 783 charges .He described a series of actions by Zuma which he questioned, starting with him dissolving the top crime busting unit the Scorpions, the replacement of the intelligence service s leaders, removing former NPA head Mxolisi Nxasana and replacing him with the spineless Shaun Abrahams.He cited many more examples including the appointment of a social worker (Riah Piyega) which he related to the Marikana massacre and Zuma s appointment of friends and family to benefit from tenders at state-owned companies.Vavi said as long as Zuma and his friends and family from the ANC and its alliance partners are in charge, South Africa will never be able to solve unemployment.He said South Africans should reclaim their country and vowed not to be intimidated. Your days are numbered. You are going to go. The people of South Africa are sick and tired of you! he told Zuma.