JOHANNESBURG &#8211; The rand fell nearly 2% on Tuesday, extending its losing streak into a seventh straight session a day after S&amp;P Global Ratings cut the South Africa s credit rating to sub-investment grade with a negative outlook. At 09:12, the rand traded at 13.8363 per dollar, 1.11% weaker from its Monday close.South Africa&#8217;s dollar bond yields and credit default swaps rose on Tuesday, still reeling from S&amp;P&#8217;s downgrade.The yield on the benchmark 2026 bond jumped nearly 3 basis points to 4.934%, according to Tradeweb data.Five-year credit default swaps &#8211; the cost of insuring South African government debt against default &#8211; added 1 basis point to 225 bps, its highest level in nearly four months, from Monday&#8217;s close of 224 bps, according to data provider IHS Markit.S&amp;P cut the credit rating to BB+ from BBB- and assigned a negative outlook, citing fiscal policy risk following Pravin Gordhan&#8217;s sacking as finance minister. Moody&#8217;s has also placed South Africa&#8217;s credit rating on review and should release its view on Friday.Finance minister Malusi Gigaba is to brief the media on the S&amp;P downgrade at 10:00.Head of the IRR s Centre for Risk Analysis, Kerwin Lebone, said: The announcement is a considerable setback, particularly after the effort that was made by business, civil society, and some government leaders to prevent precisely this outcome. Although not entirely unexpected, the decision by S&amp;P to cut SA&#8217;s investment rating to junk status is bad news for the economy, says Professor Raymond Parsons of North-West University s School of Business and Governance.He adds that the fact that S&amp;P didn t wait until its regular June review but announced its decision now &#8211; after an emergency meeting over the weekend &#8211; indicates the seriousness with which they see the likely economic and fiscal consequences of President Jacob Zuma s Cabinet reshuffle and the political changes at National Treasury. They are clearly worried about political risks and policy shifts. This follows on similar warnings from Fitch last week. All the indications so far have been that the Cabinet reshuffle would have a negative impact on the economy and markets, says Parsons.However IRR CEO Dr Frans Cronje said the deeper reason for the downgrade is counter-productive Cabinet policy-making since 2008. Wastage and corruption together with the bailing out of a series of unproductive State-owned companies have squandered very precious tax resources that should have gone into infrastructure development and service delivery.&#8220;The Cabinet has time and again moved to undermine local and domestic investment confidence in the economy by threatening property rights and investor protections. It has also raised the costs of doing business, and thereby lowered South Africa s relative economic competitiveness, through its policies on labour and empowerment. Many of these policies were championed by ministers and politicians who are now critical of President Zuma.&#8220;The point is that South Africa s economic troubles extend much deeper than Zuma and his remaining political allies. It will take fundamental reforms in all major areas of policy to restore South Africa s investment grade rating.&#8221;Effects The IRR says the ratings decision risks triggering a series of economic setbacks that will affect the living standards of all South Africans directly. The downgrade greatly complicates the prospects for South Africa being able to stage an economic recovery. Without a growth recovery, employment growth and revenue collection will stagnate and may even decline,&#8221; Cronje says. The result will be a series of year-on-year declines in the living standards of poor and middle class South Africans alike. With growth rates having slipped to just 0.3% of GDP in 2016 the prospects for recession will now again appear on investor radars. Parsons adds: The possible &#8216;domino effect&#8217; of S &amp; P investment downgrade of SA&#8217;s sovereign risk implies eventual higher borrowing costs for both public sector and private sector borrowing. This too will have a negative impact on SA s growth prospects, investor confidence and job creation. Tumisho Grater, economic strategist at Novare Actuaries &amp; Consultants agrees on the effect on employment. Jobs can only be created in an economy that is thriving and attracting investment and this move may be a deterrent. It was also hoped the SA interest cycle had now at last peaked. The S&amp;P decision also heightens the level of policy uncertainty which has hampered private fixed investment to date. It will now be necessary to revisit current forecasts of SA &#8216;s future economic prospects to see to what extent they need to be modified in the light of S&amp;P&#8217;s decision and also to urgently assess what remedial action might minimise the negative economic outcomes, Parsons adds. What next? Novare believes the removal of a finance minister in this manner may be viewed as a deterioration in South African structures and questions the institution s ability to stay on the course of fiscal consolidation while delivering on the reform agenda. Should momentum be slowed or lost in other programmes such as procurements or State-owned entities governance reforms, some of the contingent liabilities may impact the balance sheet of the sovereign, says Grater.Cronje says policy makers must, as a priority, take urgent steps to ensure South Africa doesn t now move through a destructive cycle of multiple downgrades. This will require that last week s decision to appoint Malusi Gigaba as finance minister be reviewed and reversed. While we had been prepared to adopt a wait-and-see attitude to the new minister, his comments since being appointed, particularly those criticising what he called orthodox economics , were reckless in the extreme and suggest that he will not be able to navigate the South African economy through a very sensitive era. Cronje added: In all respects the ante has been upped considerably. If the government responds by reversing the reshuffle and introducing reforms then much progress may be made. If it refuses or vacillates about what to do then economic conditions may worsen considerably. If it hunkers down and draws the laager tight around itself while exacerbating the worst aspects of current policy then South Africa may find itself entering a long term recession. 