Consolidated Infrastructure Group (CIG) sustained its impressive top-line growth for the first six months of the 2017 financial year, but profits were not able to keep up as a result of tougher trading conditions in Angola, a stronger rand over the period, and higher financing costs. Sustaining top line growth: CIG interim results to end February 2017MetricR millionPercentage changeRevenue2 700+29%Ebitda328+20%Profit after tax203-3%HEPSR1.11-18.5%Group order book6 600+25%Source: Consolidated Infrastructure GroupWhile revenue and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda) increased at double digit clips, the decline in profit after tax and headline earnings per share (Heps) were disappointing.From an operational perspective, the decline in profits from Angola Environmental Services (AES) fell 47% to R33 million. It is equity accounted and reduced profits by about R20 million, says CIG CEO, Raoul Gamsu.The business services the oil industry active off the coast of Angola and Gamsu said the business suffered from lower volumes in both oil production and exploration. Oil production was resilient at about 1.7 million barrels per day before Opec cuts enforced a reduction of about 70 000 barrels per day.&#8221;We were also caught off guard by the decline in exploration, where approximately 11-12 active rigs were cut to seven. We expected more to come on stream, but the new management team at Sonangol (the state-owned oil company) are being cautious with capital investment. We don t expect any improvement in the next six months, he said.Acquisition of Conlog The period was also notable for the consummation of the Conlog acquisition, which was incorporated into the group s power division from the start of November. The company which manufactures and distributes prepaid meters and associated applications has already been earnings accretive and Gamsu believes the acquisition will provide more opportunities to cross-sell across CIG s businesses in Africa. The earnings from Conlog were moderately enhancing for the four months of the period we owned it, says Gamsu. It s still early days, but a clear opportunity set exists for us to sell. Conco is strong in some markets and Conlog in others, and the opportunity is to bring both into markets where they have no presence using the relationships we have developed. The power division largely through Conco&#8217;s turnkey high voltage infrastructure engineering business is the mainstay of CIG s earnings, accounting for 85% of revenue and 61% of all profit after tax.Funding and liquidityThe continuing strong growth in CIG s capital intensive businesses means the group is being very conservative with funding. The net-debt ratio at the end of February stood at 10.9%, with cash on hand of some R548 million.The group has no major debt maturing in the next 12 months and has taken the opportunity to increase its medium-term note programme to R1.5 billion. This will allow it to borrow an additional R500 million through the issuance of corporate paper to fund future growth. You don t want to be in a position where your business is growing aggressively and you can t access or roll debt, so we want to make sure we have &#8216;long&#8217; money money we can draw on with maturities or repayment terms that are far in the future, says Gamsu.While South Africa s sovereign credit ratings have begun to be downgraded, Gamsu believes that in the longer term the group will begin to tap US dollar-based debt markets for most of its work outside of South Africa, perhaps starting in Mauritius where the group already has a sizable operational hub. But there is also very real appetite from development finance institutions (DFIs) to fund many of the US dollar-based projects the group is involved in on the continent. The development of these diverse funding sources will be beneficial over the longer term.Focus for the rest of the yearGamsu is excited about the opportunities in front of the group. We want to create momentum in developing renewable energy projects on the continent with $740 million worth of proposals in the pipeline. Then there is a further $600 million of export credit agency-funded projects in the more conventional grid infrastructure space we are also pursuing. Should we be successful, we think we can double the size of our business. ValuationThe market appeared not to have liked the news. CIG s (JSE:CIL) share price closed 6.84% lower at R17.70 per share on Monday. The stock was trading at a very undemanding price-earnings multiple of 7.44x before the results, and despite the strong revenue growth, the price action on Monday appears to indicate the market has taken a very dim view. Why?&#8220;It is the largest position in my fund, so beware of the conflict here,&#8221; says Keith McLachlan of AlphaWealth. &#8220;I know there have been some big sellers of the stock, but the Heps was a big miss &#8211; down 18% &#8211; so the market punished it. But if you look further than the immediate result by normalising the results for the Angolan business and the impact of forex, and accounting for the dilution from the rights issue to pay for Conlog, I got a back-of-the-matchbox increase in Ebitda of 41%. So what are you getting? At seven times earnings, it&#8217;s a business whose main division is growing very nicely and a balance sheet that is conservatively managed. I am happy to hold it.&#8221; 