Net1 UEPS Technologies has hit out at its detractors, insisting it is not exploiting or abusing welfare recipients and reminding critics it is under no regulatory investigation.But the niggling matter of its staff failing to answer the phone when its mostly indigent clients call won t go away.Allan Gray, one of South Africa s biggest money managers, said last week it s increasingly concerned over the running of Net1 UEPS Technologies.Read: We need change at Net1, says Allan GrayBloomberg reports the second-biggest shareholder in Net1, with a 15.6% stake, Allan Gray, said last week its research showed the business doesn t always answer its phones when called by welfare clients.Net1 has the contract to distribute welfare payments to more than 17 million South Africans and has been accused of illegally using information it gleans to help its subsidiaries sell those people services such as mobile phone airtime and loans.That has subsequently been hotly denied by Net1.But the phone issue lingers stubbornly. It s not illegal not to answer your phone, but it s not good business practice, Andrew Lapping, Allan Gray s chief investment officer, said. We ve been trying to find out exactly how beneficiaries are treated. If you have a problem, how easy is it to get hold of them? How easy is it to cancel debit orders? We re increasingly concerned. Our concerns have not been alleviated, he said.Allan Gray is compiling research into how Net1 treats its customers and areas for improvement, which it will present to the Net1 board.Bridget von Holdt, an official at Burson-Marsteller, a public relations company employed by Net1, issued a lengthy press release after Bloomberg s Allan Gray story. It can be read in full below. It goes into great detail about the regulatory checks and balances that are in place following the recent Constitutional Court decision to extend its contract one the court had ruled invalid in 2014. The contract extension ensured the welfare payment system didn t collapse overnight after the government failed to implement the 2014 order to find another contractor.It said on Friday in accordance with the Constitutional Court s order, the addendum to the contract between CPS and Sassa contains provisions to ensure that personal data obtained in the payment process remains private and may not be used for any purpose other than the payment of grants and to preclude a contracting party from inviting beneficiaries to opt-in to the sharing of confidential information for the marketing of goods and services .Allan Gray will also make changes to the way it makes its investments and has hired someone to investigate companies social and economic impact. We ve had introspection and looked at our processes extremely carefully and we ve made a few changes in our investment process in terms of oversight, Lapping said. There s stuff we should have known and we didn t know it. We need to be on the ground getting the facts. &#8211; Bloomberg.Net1 sets the record straight with external verificationJohannesburg, April 21, 2017 Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NasdaqGS: UEPS; JSE: NT1) has noted with concern the on-going, repetitive and false accusations regarding our business practices, particularly those pertaining to the distribution of social grants through our subsidiary Cash Paymaster Services (Pty) Ltd (&#8220;CPS&#8221;), and the provision of financial services through our various wholly-owned subsidiaries, including Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd (&#8220;Moneyline&#8221;) and The Smart Life Insurance Company Limited (&#8220;Smart Life&#8221;). As we discuss below, we are convinced that these accusations have no merit.In order to ensure that our business practices comply with applicable law, our Board relies on our internal controls and procedures, the supervision of our compliance department, and the reports that our Board regularly receives from KPMG, our internal auditors. After two of our largest shareholders recently publicly encouraged us to procure an external review of our business practices to determine the truth or falsity of the accusations made against us; our Board concluded that such a review would assist us in setting the record straight. We therefore engaged KPMG to conduct a review specifically focusing on our business practices and to provide us with a factual findings report (&#8220;KPMG report&#8221;) that addresses the accusations made against us. The KPMG report has been supplemented by confirmations from a supplier and legal opinions from our legal advisors. We encourage all interested persons to read these reports and opinions, as the Board has concluded that they verify the accuracy of all of the statements of fact, calculations and data we discuss below in this release.The KPMG report, supplier letter, legal opinions and the Constitutional Court of South Africa (&#8220;Constitutional Court&#8221;) judgments referenced in the Smit Sewgoolam, Inc. opinion are accessible on our website. We have also posted a document, in a frequently asked questions format, to our website that provides additional information related to the matters below. All documents are available on our website at http://ir.net1.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=73876&amp;p=irol-downloads.The KPMG report, supplier letter and legal opinions deal with, among other things, the following matters: We also note that the International Finance Corporation (&#8220;IFC&#8221;), a member of the World Bank Group, performed a six-month due diligence on us last year, including our business practices, following which IFC invested $107 million for an 18% interest in us. With IFC&#8217;s assistance, we are currently conducting a responsible finance advisory assessment to achieve Smart Campaign Client Protection Certification. We aim to complete the certification during the next three months and will be one of the first South African lenders to achieve such certification.Certain shareholders have also called for &#8220;improved governance.&#8221; As we recently announced, our Board has determined to separate the roles of chairman and chief executive officer. The chairman is now an independent non-employee director. Our Board also stated that it has been conducting a search for additional independent directors, including an IFC-approved director. It has been difficult to attract suitable additional independent directors over the past few years while regulatory investigations into our company were in process but now that most have been closed with no negative outcomes to us at all, a new agency-led search commenced towards the end of calendar 2016.As a US company with a primary stock exchange listing on Nasdaq, we are subject to rigorous corporate governance and disclosure standards and anti-corruption laws. Our corporate governance practices are described in detail in our annual proxy statement, which together with our corporate governance documents, are available on our website.Finally, our external auditors, Deloitte &amp; Touche, are engaged annually to report on the consolidated financial statements and related internal control over financial reporting. Their latest reports relating to the audit for the June 2016 annual financial statements, are dated August 25, 2016, and are also available on our website.