Several senior business leaders said Standard &amp; Poor s (S&amp;P) downgrade of SA s foreign debt will hit the economy, whilst they also slammed the events leading up to president Jacob Zuma s axing of finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas.Mike Brown, CEO of Nedbank, said the downgrade was disappointing as the country was shooting itself in the foot .He added that the downgrade was a surprise as the SA economy was showing positive signs of improvement and that moderate economic growth was expected. A few months ago the forecasts for GDP growth were 1.2% or 1.5% but now forecasts are coming in below 1%. S&amp;P said on Monday that Zuma s wide-ranging cabinet reshuffle undermined SA s policy certainty and growth outcomes, and was the primary reason for the downgrade.Over the past year, Brown has worked with a range of other senior South African executives, government and labour as part of the CEO Initiative.The CEO Initiative was formed after the president fired Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister in December 2015. The initiative is a platform to work with key stakeholders, to avoid a downgrade and to boost investor confidence.Gordhan played a critical role in the establishment of this initiative.Now that the dreaded downgrade has become a reality, Brown said it s a setback to turnaround initiatives. Financial markets were pricing in that we were able to avoid a downgrade. It means our work going forward is going to get harder than it needed to have been. He added: The key job right now is to reassure people as to policy certainty and for the government to define radical economic transformation and inclusive growth. On a consumer level, a downgrade will result in higher interest rates and inflation, in the long term eroding their spending power. The downgrade will make South Africans poor. If people are not feeling confident there will be less investment. Growth rates and employment levels will be lower than they should be, said Brown.A downgrade is also a problem for the government as it currently has R2 trillion in public debt, of which 10% or R220 billion is in foreign currency. Borrowing costs to fund investment initiatives will rise.President of Business Unity South Africa (Busa) Jabu Mabuza, said they are calling for the government to urgently assess whether their current path is serving the broader interests of the country . We are deeply disappointed that this [downgrade] has happened. The government has to heed these warnings and decisively act in the best interests of the country and its citizens, Mabuza said in a statement.Busa plans to meet with officials in the tripartite alliance to reset the economy on a more positive trajectory .Ratings agency Fitch has the country s sovereign rating one notch above junk while Moody s has SA two levels above junk with a negative outlook. The latter s rating is under review for a downgrade.A downgrade to junk status for SA means that banks will also follow suit. Bank share prices initially factored in the downgrade, with the JSE s banking index falling by 4.2% during intra-day on Tuesday, finishing 0.8% lower. The rand recouped early losses, trading at the R13.50 level. Bank shares usually track the exchange rate.Cas Coovadia, MD of the Banking Association South Africa, said SA s banking sector is sound and well- capitalised to withstand a downgrade .&#8220;We do need to start working with the majority political party to get back to the path of political stability and rebuild stability. We have to keep our shoulders to the wheel although we are in a bad space at the moment. We shouldn t be too alarmist about the downgrade but at the same time, we shouldn t underplay the crisis we are in at the moment. If we get our act together, then this country has immense potential.&#8221;