The press conference given by Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas on Friday was always going to be significant. Having just been dismissed from their positions as minister and deputy minister of finance, South Africa was desperate to know what they had to say.And what they said was, at times, chilling. Without actually saying so directly, their message was clear: there are forces at play doing their worst to use state institutions to further their own selfish aims.These people were not named, but as Jonas put it, you don&#8217;t need to be a genius to identify them and their work: If you look at the events in South Africa in the last couple of years, there are certain patterns and events that point to a particular interest being protected, consolidated and deepened, Jonas said. I think the State of Capture report is probably the pinnacle of that point. It probably consolidates a picture of a state or institutions that are increasingly vulnerable, increasingly being centres for attacks and in many instances to be blunt for looting. That s a reality that we have. It wasn&#8217;t however just what the two men were saying that was so captivating. It was the way that they said it.For a moment these two men reminded the country of what the ANC could be. They represented the promise of men like Ahmed Kathrada, whose funeral they had attended just days before.That promise was of a government in South Africa that would treat its citizens in a way that they had never been treated before a government that is open, honest, approachable, and completely accountable to the people it represents. It was of public servants who do not fear their own constituencies, but embrace them. It was a face of the ANC that we have not seen for many years.They were, in that moment, the antithesis of the president that had just removed them from their positions. President Jacob Zuma has become unapproachable, out-of-touch, and accountable to no one other than shady interests that do not and cannot have the good of the country at heart.Even in parliament, he doesn&#8217;t give genuine answers to questions he doesn&#8217;t like. He even disregards the concerns of his own party&#8217;s deputy president and secretary general.The tragedy is that the ANC has allowed this to happen. Its deeply entrenched culture of loyalty to the party has effectively prevented members from challenging Zuma and allowed him to become what he has.It has also eroded South Africa&#8217;s trust in its entire leadership. We had started to believe that there were no longer any good people within the ANC.And that is why Gordhan and Jonas&#8217; dignified performance was so important. Right now, South Africa is desperate for inspirational leadership, and these two men showed it. They reminded us that all is not yet lost. Together with the comments made by Gwede Mantashe, Cyril Ramaphosa and Jackson Mthembu, they also made it clear that the ANC is not Jacob Zuma. And that its conscience has been shaken.Until Zuma defied the wishes of his own party and reshuffled his cabinet, loyalty to the party had also meant loyalty to its president. That is why the ANC in parliament had continued to defend him. However, Zuma himself has now committed the most egregious sin any ANC leader can. He has struck out on his own, and gone against the party.In 1952, Dr James Moroka found out what happens to ANC presidents who go down that road. In their incredibly dignified way, Gordhan and Jonas were reminding Zuma of where it leads.