Last week finance minister Malusi Gigaba met with a number of South African asset managers in Cape Town. He scheduled the meeting to provide clarity on what his priorities would be as the new head of National Treasury.Our overarching observation is that there has been a breach of trust between the investment community and the government. Unfortunately this sets the context for all that follows and makes it quite difficult for the new minister, as our sense is that investors may experience his words as hollow.At the risk of stating the obvious, this breach results from the exit of a credible, experienced minister of finance and the replacement with a less experienced candidate. Dare we say that replacement with a credible candidate would not have elicited nearly the same negative reaction, especially if it was well telegraphed and planned.Added to that, the explanations given for the replacement are not sufficiently compelling and there would appear to be little to justify the change, especially given the market turmoil and damage to South African s standing in the international investment community. Evidence of this damage is the credit rating downgrade, as well as the selloff in our bond markets and currency.In this environment, Ashburton is monitoring key signals that will point us to the likely direction of travel under the new minister of finance. We list a couple of these below.1. An internal and experienced appointment to replace the Director-General Lungisa Fuzile would be reassuring.At the investor meeting an indication was given that this was National Treasury&#8217;s preference but with the new appointment only likely to be announced at the end of May, it does leave markets with a few weeks of uncertainty. We acknowledge the need for a proper process but we would also note that this heightened need for certainty and continuity from the &#8216;market&#8217; is a problem that has been created by the cabinet reshuffle and so one cannot really blame the markets.2. Policy uncertaintyPolicy certainty is critical for investors. Put simply, the rules by which South Africa manages its finances, need to remain broadly unchanged over long periods of time.South Africa relies on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in order to create jobs and boost economic growth. FDI is sticky money once committed, it is not easily repatriated. Currently, much of the money South Africa receives from offshore investors does not however fit into this bucket . Rather, it is what may be termed hot money meaning that when investors grow cooler on the prospects for South Africa s economy they can quickly and easily liquidate their investments and move it out of South Africa.To invest with a long-term mindset, foreign investors require of South Africa to adopt a consistent approach to managing its finances over long periods of time. For example, infrastructure investors are only likely to earn a return on their investment over two to three decades after they have invested their money. This money is more likely to reach our shores if investors are comfortable that our policies will allow them to earn this return with a high degree of certainty.In this context one could argue that there are various contradictory signals which are muddying the water and leading to policy uncertainty .The first is the appointment of an economic advisor with significantly different economic views. Ostensibly this is to bring diversity of economic thinking into National Treasury. Would it not, however, be natural to assume that this thinking will be used to craft policy? And if Chris Malikane s previously-expressed views find their way into economic policy then this would indeed be a radical departure from current policy.Malikane s views on a state bank, nationalisation and other key topics have been covered in this weekend s newspapers and it was observed that these seem at odds with Gigaba s message. Investors need some way to connect the dots. Absent this, there will be continued talk of policy uncertainty and the negative implications for FDI and hence growth.Clarity is also needed, and with increasing urgency, on what approach will be taken to resolving the most pressing issues at the SOEs, namely those around governance and balance sheet strength and stability. This point was raised by several of those present in the briefing and no satisfactory answer was forthcoming apart from the commitment that the new team would work closely with deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to implement reforms.One contradiction here is the apparent inability of National Treasury to kick nuclear into touch despite the clear negative implications for funding a nuclear plan. The deteriorating financial position of Eskom makes it increasingly likely that the funding of a nuclear programme, even if sourced by Eskom, will fall back on the SA taxpayer with dire consequences for our debt dynamics. Couple this with the recent postponement in signing the latest round of renewable deals and the concoction creates further policy uncertainty.A general observation on our engagement is that overseas investors are likely to be far less inhibited in their questioning versus their local counterparts. The National Treasury team will need to be far more precise in their answers with far less prose and far greater substance.Shalin Bhagwan is head: Institutional Solutions at Ashburton Investments.