Last year was not a very good one for the local equity market. The S&amp;P South Africa Domestic Shareholder Weighted (DSW) Index was up just 5.05%.This was not only below inflation, but also lower than the return one could have received from the money market. Even so, there were some parts of the JSE that produced exceptional returns, as value stocks came back into favour.It was therefore the sort of year in which one would hope that active managers would be able to identify and exploit the opportunities that would deliver higher returns for investors. Some of them certainly did. The most exceptional example is the Investec Value Fund, which returned 62.37%.Yet, even in this environment, 72.47% of South African equity managers failed to beat the S&amp;P benchmark. In other words, only a little more than a quarter of active managers actually outperformed the market.This is according to the latest S&amp;P Indices Versus Active (Spiva) Scorecard for South Africa, which compares the performance of active managers against a broad market benchmark. The Spiva analysis has been produced for the US every year since 2002, and was introduced into South Africa last year.As the table below shows, whether over one, three or five years, the majority of local managers are unable to beat the index.Percentage of South African Funds Outperformed by BenchmarksFund categoryBenchmark1 year %3 year %5 year %South African EquityS&amp;P South Africa DSW Index72.47%80.14%76.98%Source: S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices A comparison of the average South African equity fund performance against the benchmark tells a similar story:Average South African Fund PerformanceCategory1 year %3 year % (annualised)5 year % (annualised)S&amp;P South Africa DSW Index5.05%7.76%14.00%South African Equity3.36%5.40%11.45%Source: S&amp;P Dow Jones IndicesWhat is worth noting, however, is that if you asset weight the returns, this average does improve. In other words most investors would have seen a slightly better return as larger funds on average outperformed smaller ones.Average South African Fund Performance (Asset Weighted)Category1 year %3 year % (annualised)5 year % (annualised)S&amp;P South Africa DSW Index5.05%7.76%14.00%South African Equity5.06%6.25%11.96%Source: S&amp;P Dow Jones IndicesThe Spiva analysis is unique because it also corrects for survivorship bias. It takes into account the whole opportunity set at the start of the period, not only those funds that survived.On the whole, this doesn&#8217;t make very good reading for active managers. Once again a study shows that the majority of them are not doing what they are essentially paid to do, which is to generate market-beating performance.It is not, however, very useful to just leave it there. The industry as a whole really needs to do some self-inspection to ask why this is the case.Firstly, it is becoming increasingly obvious that there are too many funds in South Africa. There is a very large tail of poor performers that add no value to anybody except the managers earning fees from them.Of course the nature of the market is that there must be some funds that underperform for others to outperform. There have to be winners and losers. But when the ratios are so heavily skewed towards the losers, one has to ask why there are so many of them. The second question fund managers should be asking is whether they are truly offering something compelling. In a world where index tracking is becoming increasingly popular, are managers that build portfolios that look similar to the index really adding value?Put another way, active managers need to show that they are truly active. That means that they must hold convictions that are different to the general market and their portfolios must reflect this. Thirdly, active managers need to continue to pay close to attention to the effect that costs are having on their performance. The Spiva scorecard shows fund performance after fees, but it would be interesting to know how many funds would have outperformed before some of that was paid away in expenses.Managers cannot control what the market does, but they can control what their clients have to pay. They&#8217;re already under heavy scrutiny in this regard, but they will have to continue to manage this carefully. These are crucial considerations for the industry, and investors need to pay attention to how it addresses them. Because while the Spiva scorecard does show that most active managers are underperforming, it also shows that there is a fair chunk that do beat the market.The larger industry should be asking what those managers are doing and how they are doing it. And so should investors.