Annette Muller will be speaking at the 2017 Money Expo. For more information on this event please click here.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Like it or not the gig economy , where jobs are done by part-timers, freelancers, temps and contractors is here to stay and it s growing. Annette Muller, founder of Flexy, joins us in studio to talk about the changing workplace and the global trend towards freelancing. Annette, thank you so much for your time.ANNETTE MULLER: Thank you, it s nice to be here. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I remember when I was much younger, your parents are very old school if you come from that kind of background, where they want you to have a nine to five every single day and it s generally a job you ll probably be doing for over 15, 20 years, and because the world is changing and everybody is changing now, my parents got introduced to the idea of freelancing mainly because of what I was doing for a living. How has it progressed over the years, are people now accepting that there s this thing called freelancers and how is that going? ANNETTE MULLER: I think globally we are definitely seeing the trend become far more realistic and we re seeing a definite shift in the workforce, specifically in the US and Europe. Locally in South Africa it is certainly picking up and we re seeing the growth of the amount of freelance experts happening at a rapid pace but it s still not as well adopted on the company side. So I think where a lot of changes we are going to see or experience over the next couple of years is how companies adapt to this new gig economy.I think on the working side, where we re looking at the freelance experts or independent consultants there the trend is definitely in full force but what s going to be interesting is how companies adapt to this, how are they going to work on demand especially with the new millennials coming into the workplace. I think that s going to be really interesting and hopefully businesses like Flexy and other platforms will enable and help companies to leverage this new gig economy.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Talking about Flexy, you started it, take us through what inspired the idea to have this kind of company that s involved in this particular sector? ANNETTE MULLER: Personally I have always been really interested in the way that at a very high level, if I may, humans and society operate and how people work. I think a lot of what we walked into was deep-rooted from the industrial revolution and this concept of working nine to five and certain jobs and tasks being very automated. I really like what economist, Thomas Friedman, said in a book that I read many, many years ago around globalisation where we start seeing individuals dealing with individuals and, of course, many advances in technology, transport and cross-border travel. All of a sudden we find ourselves in this really exciting world where things are no longer as structured and routinised around nine to five. One of the primary reasons why people had to go and work at the office was because we didn t have cell phones, so you had a landline and you had to be there in order to communicate.So that is something that really inspired me and I m very in tune with how the future of work is going to be experienced or how it s going to look and I wanted to be part of it. I wanted to make an impact and help people. Another big inspiration point for me was just sitting in traffic every morning and I m seeing the inefficiency of people spending hours in their cars and looking through car windows and seeing lots of unhappy faces, and I thought is it the traffic, are people not enjoying their jobs. So I just think there are better ways to do it, there s more happiness, a big thing we promote at Flexy is happy working and that s about having freedom and flexibility around that. On the more practical side my previous business is a company called DotNxt, which I exited last year, sold it to an international firm called Switch and DotNxt is a very niche innovation consultancy where we help corporates innovate and work on innovative projects. In that business we worked with a lot of freelance experts, independent consultants, independent professionals, public speakers, subject matter experts and we found it quite difficult to manage this new way of working. It was so fluid, everything is flexible, you have people working at different times, you have the administration associated to it, the contracting, the payments, the booking, the schedules, managing people s capacity. Out of that we learnt a lot about what it takes to work on demand and be good at it and that s where a lot of Flexy s learnings have come from and that s from having access to all of those challenges, being in the industry we have actually learnt how to solve those challenges and how to work on demand and that s what a lot of the platform s features and functionality is based upon. So the underlying technology on the Flexy platform is really what helps companies work on demand and build out teams of experts. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: I ve heard of people who have a normal nine to five but then after hours there s something else that you re doing that gives you an extra spring in your step. How do you know in the beginning whether the freelance economy is for you, what are some of the things that you need to take into consideration before you even start going on the Flexy website and going further with it?ANNETTE MULLER: Very good question. Something that we ve learnt and we have a verification score, which is an algorithm that helps us to differentiate between what we would call a freelance expert that has the potential to succeed and others who are still learning and then the group, which you referred to earlier, which we call moonlighters who specifically only freelance after hours. Some of the things we have seen is that we look at the ability for someone to work on their own, so to work highly independently, so to not be someone who generate energy and work effectiveness from relying on people around them because being a freelance expert means you do have more of an independent existence. So you do work with teams but you work probably with four or five teams, or three or two teams depending on the amount of clients or projects you are working on but you re always seen psychologically as the outsider, even though you re part of a team.You must be very good at managing your own motivation and your own independence, which for those who do not like politics it s a wonderful place to be in. Another thing we have seen on the expert side is to be able to deal with clients. A lot of people who do not succeed on the freelancing side are people who do not really have that client relationship management aspect to them, you must be able to deal with clients and separate clients and hold yourself to a certain degree. I think that s not for everyone, some people just want to not deal with anyone and sit in the corner and just do their thing, where there is an element of client relationship management involved for every expert. Then the last one is also &#8211; the obvious ones are time management and a level of administration but the last one is to be able to market and brand yourself, so when you become a freelance expert or a freelance entrepreneur there is an element of personal branding, your LinkedIn profile must be up to date, you must have a personal website, that s something we always promote, and these are some of the things that we help people who sign up onto the Flexy network, the marketing and the personal branding side. But it s important that you must at least want that and see that for yourself in order to succeed. Then, lastly, the ability to juggle, there are going to be multiple clients, multiple balls in the air and platforms like Flexy and other platforms can help you manage your time and your booking schedule and ensure that you re not running over capacity or under capacity but you still must have that flexibility inside of you as a person to be able to hustle a little. NASTASSIA ARENDSE: When it comes to the sectors where people can freelance, which ones are you seeing? I know in my industry where it s media there are a lot of cameramen, animators, graphic designers, what other spaces are there for freelancing opportunities?ANNETTE MULLER: Certainly the media industry is a big one; writers, cameramen, photographers, animators, like you ve mentioned. I think also the film industry is probably the largest and a flourishing industry for freelance experts but it s also a very complex industry in terms of booking and cancelation and insurance and so on. The industries that we focus on that we ve seen is certainly the creative industry and the technology industry, so anything from graphic designers to UX designers, user interface designers, technology advisors and then a growing sector is management consultants.We re seeing a trend towards people leaving some of the larger consulting firms like KPMG, McKinsey or Deloitte and either doing their MBA, busy with a fulltime MBA or after they ve done their MBA finding themselves in this interesting pool where they don t want to go back to fulltime employment but they haven t yet found a business where they become a full-blown entrepreneur, so we call them freelance entrepreneurs. Another category, which is really interesting, is all your public speakers, business coaches, trainers and facilitators. Then the last category, and interestingly enough we see a lot of women in it, which is your independent professionals, so those are your accountants, lawyers, HR professionals, typically women who have given up fulltime employment but still highly skilled, who want to work in different areas or different companies for a couple of hours a day or week or month. Those are some of the industries that we are focusing on very much in the B2B space. But beyond Flexy there is definitely a trend and it s not a new one if we look at anything from security guards to waiters to any flexy workers, that s not a new concept, it s just more in what I would call the highly skilled professional base where a shift in the workforce is going from this notion of when you left university it was really cool to go and work at a big corporate and we re seeing a trend that s saying when you leave university it s really cool to do your own thing and have flexibility and travel and work with projects and companies with a purpose.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: How competitive is this space that you are in?ANNETTE MULLER: I think it s difficult to assess the competitive nature but what I can say is that there is a lot of disconnect. Wwe re seeing is on the one hand we are constantly speaking to companies and companies are saying we can t find skills, we can t find the right skills, there s a shortage of talent. Then on the other hand you ve got all these freelance experts and they are saying we can t find work, there s a shortage of work. So I think it s a disconnect, I think there s a massive disconnect. I think companies still need to have a mind shift to explore alternative means of getting access to skills, instead of just fulltime employment because I think the comfort zone and the default setting is to just go to HR and say employ and find these skills. But that s not the only way to close the gap. So competitive it s difficult to say because it s such early days, I think it s more about closing the disconnect in terms of that. From Flexy s perspective it s not a very competitive space locally, there s Flexy and maybe one or two other platforms. Internationally there are number of these marketplaces like Upwork, Freelancer, Fiverr, PeoplePerHour and so on.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: If the Moneyweb audience want to know a little bit more information about Flexy and they are probably thinking, well, this is something I m into and I d love to take on more work, I go onto the website which is?ANNETTE MULLER: www.flexyskills.com But you can also go onto Google and just Google Flexy, it will come up first.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: Then you sign up and what s the process from there on? ANNETTE MULLER: We encourage people to have a little read through and familiarize yourself with how it works, there s a comprehensive FAQ section and then you sign up via the sign-up form, we re still working on it, in true start-up style we re constantly improving and you give us access to certain information, including your LinkedIn data, and a bunch of other questions that we will ask you. As I mentioned before, there s a score that gets allocated to see where you fit into the road to being a successful freelance business owner and then based on that you would get accepted onto the network. Once you re accepted onto the network you get access to the community, which is a really great support group. One of the things you know from being a freelance expert yourself is actually that it gets quite lonely, you re on this journey by yourself but having access to a community and support and knowing that there are other people just like you who are also looking for work or who are also not being paid on time or who are also wondering about what skills development they need to do to be relevant two or three or five years from now. All of these things we address and we try and give support to the community, specifically around things like taxes, invoicing and so on.Once you are part of the community then on the other side there are clients who sign up and from a company s perspective they then go in and they build their own network of freelance experts. So they say typically they are looking for let s say growth marketing experts or they are looking for system architects or business analysts or whatever it may be and they then get introduced to the top profiles that match their requirements. Thereafter you meet the clients and you decide much like Tinder whether you like each other and whether you want to work together and you can accept or reject. Then once you ve been accepted to work together you become part of their pool and thereafter they can book your time as and when they need it, so that all happens automatically on the platform.Once you get booked you decide whether it s the kind of project you want to work on and you set your own rates. We also encourage experts to see themselves like an online store and you ve got certain skills and a certain amount of time to sell your skills, so it is about optimising that with things like smart pricing and trying to sell your unsold inventory.It is really about looking at yourself like a business and growing your freelance business.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: We ll have to leave it there, thank you so much for your time.ANNETTE MULLER: It was a pleasure.NASTASSIA ARENDSE: That was Annette Muller, she s the founder of Flexy, she joined us in studio to talk about the changing workplace and the global trend towards freelancing. Annette will be talking on this topic at the 2017 Money Expo in July 2017. For more information please visit www.themoneyexpo.co.za