A revamp of McDonald s iconic Big Mac burger and more aggressive drink promotions are helping the restaurant giant overcome a broader slump in the fast-food industry.The chain posted a surprisingly strong gain in same-store sales last quarter, with the measure growing 4% globally. Analysts had estimated a 1.3% rise. Earnings also topped projections. The results suggest that chief executive officer Steve Easterbrook got a payoff from efforts to overhaul the company s menu. He rolled out different sizes of the Big Mac and offered $1 and $2 drink deals, a bid to attract customers in a cutthroat US restaurant environment. A switch to all-day breakfast in the US in 2015 also continues to fuel sales.&nbsp;&nbsp; US sales showed a nice acceleration in the quarter, said Michael Halen, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. They ve made a lot of positive changes over the last two years, and all of these positive changes are starting to add up. Shares of McDonald s Corporation rose as much as 3.6% to $139 in early trading. Through Monday s close, the stock had climbed 10% this year, outpacing the Standard &amp; Poor s 500 Index s 6% gain.The Big Mac strategy represents a case of getting playful with a well-known product and not irking customers in the process. PepsiCo wasn t so fortunate when it reformulated Diet Pepsi in 2015, a move that led to a consumer backlash. And Coca-Cola s launch of New Coke in 1985 is considered one of corporate America s most legendary failures.McDonald s now serves the Big Mac in three sizes: the traditional version, a larger Grand Mac and a smaller Mac Jr.US same-store sales rose 1.7% last quarter, an unexpected gain. Analysts projected a 0.8% drop. Earnings amounted to $1.47 a share in the period, handily beating the $1.34 estimate of analysts.Delivery pushThe company also is looking to delivery services and more digital options to help attract diners. It hasn t been easy. US competitors are advertising steeply discounted food, along with new fare. Industry same-store sales fell 0.6% in March, slipping for the fourth straight month, according to MillerPulse data.McDonald s also performed well in overseas markets, which provide about two-thirds of revenue. Same-store sales at its high-growth division rose 3.8%, topping the 2.7% estimate. That segment includes China, where the chain is opening new locations to better compete with Yum China Holdings Inc. s KFC and Pizza Hut brands.Its so-called international lead markets climbed 2.8% by that measure, driven by strong results from the UK and Canada. New fare has attracted diners in the UK, while the chain has been working to improve its customer service at Canadian locations.McDonald s total revenue was $5.68 billion last quarter, compared with the average projection of $5.53 billion. Some of the gain may have come at the expense of other restaurant chains, including Sonic Corporation and IHOP, Halen said. They could be stealing traffic, he said. There s no doubt things are looking up for McDonald s. 2017 Bloomberg