U.S. stocks rose the most in two weeks, while the dollar weakened as traders returned from a long weekend that failed to deliver major geopolitical events that threaten global growth. Treasuries slipped.The S&amp;P 500 Index rose in trading 20 percent below the 30-day average. Bloomberg s Dollar Spot Index pared losses that took it to a three-week low after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told the Financial Times the greenback s strength is a good thing. The yield on 10-year Treasuries edged higher from a November low. Gold erased gains. Turkey s lira jumped after a vote expanded powers for the president. Copper climbed after China s economic growth accelerated.Investors turned less cautious as the new week dawned after macro news and events piled up over the long weekend without any major international incidents. The dollar pared a decline sparked by the U.S. decision not to label any countries currency manipulators, while haven demand eased after North Korea s failed ballistic missile launch and Turkey s referendum. Faster growth in China boosted optimism about the strength of the global economy before the earnings season ramps up.Here s what investors are watching this week:Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong and most major European markets won t reopen until Tuesday. The annual spring meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund take place in Washington. Companies reporting this week include Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., International Business Machines Corp., Netflix Inc., Heineken NV and Unilever.Here are the main moves in markets:StocksThe S&amp;P 500 index rose 0.8 percent to 2,346.35 at 3:25 p.m. in New York. The gauge lost 1.1 percent for the holiday-shortened week. Trading in S&amp;P 500 shares was 21 percent below the 30-day average at this time of day. The MSCI Emerging Market Index added 0.2 percent. European markets were closed. CurrenciesThe Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index fell 0.4 percent to the lowest in three weeks. The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.0659. The British pound strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.2587, the strongest in more than two weeks. The Turkish lira rose 2.1 percent to 3.6656 per dollar. BondsThe yield on 10-year Treasuries were unchanged at 2.24 percent, near the lowest in about five months. European sovereign debt markets were closed. CommoditiesGold futures rose 0.2 percent to $1,291.30 an ounce, rising for a fourth consecutive session to the highest level in five months. Copper futures climbed 0.6 percent in New York, boosted by data showing China s gross domestic product rose 6.9 percent in the first quarter. The country is the world s biggest consumer of the metal. West Texas Intermediate crude fell 0.4 percent to $52.94 a barrel, the lowest in more than a week. The U.S. continued to ramp up drilling, stoking concerns the nation s surge in output this year will counter OPEC-led efforts to cut a global supply surplus. Iron ore fell 2 percent to 500.5 yuan per metric ton, the lowest in more than 14 weeks. AsiaThe yen edged higher to trade at a five-month high amid persistent concern that North Korea tensions will escalate. Chinese shares tumbled even as the country s GDP strengthened, while Japanese stocks rose amid speculation recent selling was overdone.