The considered commentary that has accompanied the decision by Fitch and S&amp;P indicates real concern about the government&#8217;s plans for nuclear build.They also appear to shed light on the reasons why the country has had four finance ministers in the space of 16 months. Consider this from Fitch: &#8220;Differences over the country&#8217;s expensive nuclear programme preceded the dismissal of a previous finance minister, Nhlanhla Nene, in December 2015 and in Fitch&#8217;s view may have also contributed to the decision for the recent reshuffle.&#8221;While the government&#8217;s position ushered from the mouth of both Pravin Gordhan and his successor, Malusi Gigaba, is that the country will proceed with nuclear at a pace and scale that it can afford, Fitch seemed to indicate that both Nene and Gordhan were opposed to the nuclear programme that the president wanted to implement. And while Gordhan did agree that nuclear was part of government policy, he did not mention the word once in his budget speech. Fitch has concerns about how quickly the nuclear programme will move now that Gordhan has been dispensed with:&#8220;Under the new cabinet, including a new energy minister, the programme is likely to move relatively quickly. The state-owned electricity company, Eskom, has already issued a request for information for nuclear suppliers and is expected to issue a request for proposals for nuclear power stations later this year. The treasury under its previous leadership had said that Eskom could not absorb the nuclear programme with its current approved guarantees, so the treasury will likely have to substantially increase guarantees to Eskom. This would increase contingent liabilities, which are already sizeable. According to the 2017/18 budget, the government&#8217;s guarantee exposure to public institutions was ZAR308.3 billion at end-March 2017, up from ZAR255.8 billion a year earlier. The main SOEs had additional liabilities of ZAR463 billion in 2016 with no explicit guarantee but with a significant probability that the government would step in should SOEs be unable to service the debt. The government has repeatedly needed to support SOEs, including Eskom, which is responsible for a large share of liabilities.&#8221;So far, Gigaba has not indicated any change to the speed or scale of the programme. But then with procurement for nuclear now under Eskom&#8217;s supervision, will it really get the scrutiny it deserves?