Fitch becomes the first agency to downgrade South Africa&#8217;s local currency rating to below investment grade (junk). The agency decided to downgrade both South Africa&#8217;s foreign and local currency rating. &#8220;The downgrade of South Africa&#8217;s Long-Term IDRs reflects Fitch&#8217;s view that recent political events, including a major cabinet reshuffle, will weaken standards of governance and public finances. In Fitch&#8217;s view, the cabinet reshuffle, which involved the replacement of the finance minister, Pravin Gordhan, and the deputy finance minister, Mcebisi Jonas, is likely to result in a change in the direction of economic policy. The reshuffle partly reflected efforts by the out-going finance minister to improve the governance of state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The reshuffle is likely to undermine, if not reverse, progress in SOE governance, raising the risk that SOE debt could migrate onto the government&#8217;s balance sheet.&#8221;&#8211; Fitch.This follows hot on the heels of the decision by Standard &amp; Poors to downgrade a number of South African banks on Thursday, which was a natural extension of its decision to downgrade the sovereign credit rating of the government s foreign currency debt.(The same action is applied to the banks due to the fact that the rating of a domestic bank, be it local currency (rand) or foreign currency, cannot be higher than the country it is domiciled in.) To understand the implications of the downgrade and what happens next, Moneyweb spoke to two men who, in their capacity as Group Treasurers, each manage a balance sheet of more than a trillion rand respectively: Deon Raju from Barclays Africa Group and Andries du Toit from Firstrand.The S&amp;P downgrade had a limited effect on the funding and liquidity of the balance sheets of the banks concerned purely because the foreign currency component of their total liabilities is very small.But the men are worried. The wider consequences of Fitch&#8217;s move involve the perceptions of the country as an investment destination, and more worringly, it means that one other agency to downgrade our local currency to junk means the country is condemned. This is the point at which the proverbial hits the fan. We have seen it coming for some time and we have had a few years to prepare, that s why the dividend growth in our stock has been muted, says Raju. We have built up R105 billion in capital and R240 billion in liquidity resources (liquid assets that can be sold quickly to raise cash and other short-term cash resources) to support the activities of our R1 trillion balance sheet in the event of downgrade. That s why we have been keeping reserves far in excess of minimum regulatory requirements. Barclays Africa Group Treasurer, Deon RajuForeign liabilities make up less than 5% of Barclays Africa s deposit base, equating to roughly R30 R40 billion. In fact, we have more foreign currency deposits than we lend out, says Raju. Barclays taps wholesale money markets for about R200 billion, with the balance of its funding coming from retail and corporate deposits.Foreign currency funding also accounts for a small portion of Firstrand&#8217;s balance sheet, but the effects of the S&amp;P downgrade are already being felt more broadly. Du Toit says there has been an immediate effect on the cost of his group s capital. In our local currency, we have seen a 5 basis point (0.05%) increase in our cost of funding, and we expect this to rise by 15-25 basis points when all is said and done. The increase on existing loans can t be passed through to our borrowers until there is an interest rate decision by the South African Reserve Bank, so in the meantime, our shareholders absorb that cost. But we have started transmitting the higher cost of funding into the rates of new loans being granted. To illustrate the effect on foreign currency government borrowing as a result of the actions of the President consider this: Pravin Gordhan had undertaken what s called a non-deal road show when he was recalled from London. On these road shows, Treasury will test the appetite and pricing for SA government debt by asking for bids on $1bn (R13.7 billion). In just the last two weeks, the cost of this bid has risen by 50 basis points (0.5%). The implication is that the country will now pay $50 million dollars more in interest ($5 million a year over ten years) just on that small foreign currency bond.But the cost for the government even on new rand denominated bonds it issues, has increased, and will spike again following the news from Fitch. The government issues about R165 billion worth of bonds a year. Thanks to the shenanigans of President Zuma, the yields on the R186 bond (a benchmark we use to see how the cost of government borrowing changes) has risen from 8.30% to 9.01% over the last two weeks, a difference of 70 basis points (0.7%). We estimate the increase in interest the country will pay as a result of this, assuming interest rate yields remain at these levels, is in the region of R2 billion per annum, says Du Toit. That is money that could be desperately spent elsewhere, and in effect has vanished from the fiscus.In the wake of Friday&#8217;s decision, all eyes will be on Moodys. Moodys has indicated a review will take place in the next few months. I expect they will downgrade us one notch on local and foreign currency as they generally move the two in tandem. We will still be investment grade in that event, says Raju. If this takes place, all eyes will shift back to S&amp;P. Effects of a local currency downgradeTwo local currency downgrades to junk will trigger calamity. For starters, the world s biggest pool of capital the pension funds of western economies will become closed as South Africa is disqualified for inclusion in world bond indexes like the Wigbi (Citibank World Government Bond Index) and JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index.When the downgrade happens, investors that hold our bonds will have to sell them in order to comply with their portfolio mandates (which requires them to only hold investment grade bonds). Of the R2.2 trillion in government debt (which excludes parastatals and corporates) approximately 38%, or R870 billion, is held by foreigners. Not all of these foreigners will be forced sell, by Barclays Africa&#8217;s estimates, forced sellers amount to between $8 &#8211; $12 billion (R100 &#8211; R150 billion). So, in the immediate aftermath of the downgrade, there will be massive currency depreciation as a substantial portion of the R100 &#8211; R150 billion worth of government bonds are sold and repatriated overseas on a net basis. (Some of the foreign bond owners will sell to other foreigners.) This whole process will take place over a period as short as one to two months. Foreigners will sell rands and buy dollars in the international market (London/New York) and this will further weaken the currency, says Du Toit.The real long-term damage starts with perceptions and the damage to investor s confidence. This will trigger a downward spiral of events that is very difficult to get out of. Multiple downgrades could see investor and business confidence decline, there will be less foreign direct investment, less portfolio inflows (foreigners buying our bonds and equities), rapid currency depreciation, a hike in inflationary pressure and then inflation. Interest rates will have to begin rising, says Raju.And this is where things get interesting for a bank. As interest rates rise, defaults begin to spike and bad debts increase, hence the need for reserves to manage the downturn. Brazil is a good proxy for what can happen when a local currency downgrade takes place, says Du Toit. Brazil was downgraded approximately 18 months ago. The country s inflation and interest rates doubled, the Brazilian Real depreciated by 75% and the equity index dropped by 40%. The yields on long bonds doubled. The beauty of the international bond market is that if you play by the rules and maintain your credit rating, you are effectively being lent money on an unsecured basis in a very transparent manner and at the lowest possible cost. As long as you stick to the credit metrics, you can choose what you spend your money on. This is not the case when you begin entering into bilateral borrowing arrangements that start with development finance institutions like the IFC and end with loans from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank. You obtain covenants for these types of loan agreements, says Du Toit.With bilateral funding the costs go up, the pricing and terms of the loans are not transparent nor subject to public scrutiny, and you get told what you can use the money for. Depending on who you borrow from and for what, you may also be instructed to buy goods and services designated by the lender like China imposes on borrowers, for example.By the time you start taking money from the IMF, severe covenants called structural reforms kick in. Sovereignty gets obliterated as the fund imposes terms on how you as government run the country and manage the fiscus. There are plenty of examples of countries on the continent that have got to this point including Mozambique, Zambia, Ghana, Nigeria, and Tanzania.But it&#8217;s not all doom and gloom. We have had a little bit of luck. We are benefitting from the global search for yield. But if we don t implement what we have said we will as a country structural changes to the economy to support growth, control spending and government exposure to SOE s, we could experience further downgrades, says Raju.Du Toit concurs. Every time a sovereign gets downgraded things get tougher. It happens all over the world &#8211; they end up with higher interest rates as a result of lower growth. It seems the Finance Minister and Treasury understand this and we all have to work together to pull ourselves out of this. You can t defy gravity. We are now on the cusp.A summary of what SA has told ratings agencies and investors:Source: National Treasury 