Zambia s main opposition leader, Hakainde Hichilema, has been arrested and charged with treason for failing to move off the road for the president s motorcade at a weekend ceremony, his deputy said.The charge allows no bail and can carry the death penalty.Police raided Hichilema s residence late Monday, firing teargas and breaking down doors, while the president of the United Party for National Development sought refuge in a safe room in the house. Police used teargas to try force Hichilema and his family out, and he emerged when his lawyers were allowed on the property, according to his wife, Mutinta.The police work independently and the presidency won t interfere in Hichilema s case, Amos Chanda, President Edgar Lungu s spokesman, said in a statement posted to the ruling Patriotic Front s Facebook account. Several crimes were committed during the motorcade incident, he said. The police haven t confirmed the arrest or charge and said a statement will be issued Wednesday. He was not interviewed, he was only told that you have been charged with a treasonable charge which is treason itself, Geoffrey Mwamba, the UPND s vice president, told reporters Tuesday. The allegations are trumped up and Hichilema has not committed any offense whatsoever, he said.Election dispute The latest arrest marks a spike in the confrontation between HH, as the opposition leader is known, and Lungu, whom Hichilema refuses to recognize because he says the election he lost in August was fraudulent. The UPND challenged the results in the Constitutional Court, which didn t hear the case after the 14-day period allowed for the petition lapsed before it could even begin.Yields on Zambia s $1 billion of Eurobonds due April 2024 rose 4 basis points on Wednesday to 8.08 percent.Police in the Southern Province arrested four people for attempting to hold a riot in response to the arrest of Hichilema, the police commissioner for the province, Bonny Kapeso, said in a text message Wednesday.Hichilema, 54, was last arrested in October over allegations of unlawful assembly, and says he s been detained at least 16 times in the past five years. This time they were so brutal, Hichilema said by phone Tuesday after he arrived at the police station. They tortured my workers. My lips are swollen, my eyes are swollen, my skin is itching. 2017 Bloomberg L.P