Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.The stretched twig of peaceIn what is probably not an ideal start to the two-year Brexit negotiation process, a spat over the status of Gibraltar escalated to the point where a senior member of Theresa May&#8217;s governing party suggested the prime minister would go to war to protect the south Iberian rock. Spanish Foreign Minister Alfonso Dastis attempted to calm the situation, saying that &#8220;it looks like someone in the UK is losing their composure.&#8221; On the data front, UK manufacturing PMI showed a decline to 54.2 in March as inflationary pressures continue. The pound dropped following the release. EM risksUnrest in emerging markets is on the rise. In Latin America, there are anti-government protests in Paraguay (where the congress building was set ablaze on Friday), Ecuador and Brazil. Venezuela&#8217;s top court reversed its decision to strip power from the opposition-led National Assembly, taking the country back from the brink of dictatorship. In South Africa, the political fallout from President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s decision to fire his finance minister continues with parliamentary Speaker Baleka Mbete saying she is considering whether to allow a vote of no-confidence in the president to be held. Despite all this, investors are not yet running for the exits.Oil back over $50A barrel of West Texas Intermediate for May delivery was at $50.68 by 5:37am Eastern Time as optimism over production cuts outweighed rising US supply. Opec&#8217;s secretary-general Mohammad Barkindo said the group&#8217;s output reduction is helping to bring the market to balance. Tensions in the oil-producing Kirkuk region of Iraq risk curtailing supply from the 1-million barrels a day field.Markets quietOvernight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.4 percent, while Japan&#8217;s Topix index closed 0.3% higher as regional PMI data were strong. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.2% higher at 5:50am, again after positive PMI data. US stock market futures pointed to a small gain at the open. At melting pointPresident Donald Trump said the US can tackle the nuclear threat from North Korea on its own, if China doesn&#8217;t cooperate to put pressure on the nation. The president is due to meet Chinese premier Xi Jinping on Thursday. Coming up in the U.S. today is manufacturing PMI at 9:45am, with manufacturers also scheduled to release vehicle sales data for March throughout the day. That&#8217;s projected to show sales of 17.3 million in total. 2017 Bloomberg