Investors prefer competition authorities to be aligned in terms of the decisions and the remedies that they may impose in a transaction, so that deals can proceed efficiently. It is therefore good news for investment that mechanisms for co-operation between regulators across Africa are being established.Over the last 18 months, more than ten memoranda of understanding (MoUs) have been signed by 25 competition regulators in Africa and BRICS, to facilitate the cooperation between competition regimes on issues of competition policy and enforcement.The MoU recently signed between South Africa and Kenya, for example, will lead to improved communication between the competition regulators in these countries, in terms of appropriate mechanisms. As an example, before the MoU was signed, Kenya made the decision to investigate the East Africa Cement Producer Association for prohibited practice activities. The case was initiated after the cement cartel investigation in South Africa. Kenya s Competition Authority looked at what had happened in South Africa and then initiated an investigation based on the South Africa experience and subsequent decision. However, although the cement markets in the two countries are similar, there was a significant difference in the facts of the case. Kenya s regulators were not aware of these facts because detailed information had not been shared between the countries regulators. Had there been an MoU in place at this point, Kenya and South Africa would have exchanged information and the Kenya Authority may have chosen not to launch the investigation or to pursue a different case. This is an example of how MoUs can be effective.The recent MoU between South Africa and BRICS partners is important because it partners South Africa with countries on the global stage.With regards to India, there are many large companies in South Africa that are of Indian origin or owned by Indian nationals, such as Tata, ArcelorMittal and more recently, pharmaceutical manufacturers which are active in the supply of ARVs to our public hospitals. India is fast gaining a good reputation in terms of its competition law, with positive reviews from competition practitioners. The sharing of best practices in competition, as well as the experiences and lessons learned, will be useful in cross border transactions between the two countries.The BRICS MoU will also be of use when dealing with competition regulators in Brazil due to inward investment from Brazil into South Africa. In addition, China is a big investor in South Africa and its competition regulator, which is known to be thoughtful and measured in its review process, is gaining respect globally.However, the BRICS MoU is unlikely to have any impact on initial investment decisions. Serious investors will find a way to transact, no matter what barriers they face. Lawyers on the other hand, favour MoUs because the information sharing introduces a level of predictability in the international merger review system, helping to plan and speed up transactions.MoUs are most useful if they are grounded in an existing relationship between the countries and regulators are essentially responding to existing patterns of investment. This is more useful than MoUs driven from a foreign policy perspective. Nyali is a senior associate in the Competition Practice at Bowmans South Africa.This article first appeared in DealMakers.