Many years ago we needed to hire someone into our team. We interviewed a number of people and struggled to find the right person for the role.After one particular interview we were all convinced that we finally had our guy. Company policy however dictated that we needed to send the person for a psychometric evaluation. A few weeks later we met for the feedback, and were completely caught off guard by the recommendation: do not hire this person. How is it that we all thought that this was our guy &#8211; so much so that we stopped taking in new CVs while waiting for the feedback?The evaluator noticed the surprise and smiled at the familiarity of the situation. Her feedback was frank: we were dealing with what is colloquially referred to as a wheel spinner . Picture the situation where you have a group of bikers outside a pub after a few drinks. Invariably one of them gets onto their bike, starts revving the engine while holding onto the brakes. The back wheel starts spinning and creates a lot of smoke, and soon he is laying some rubber on the road. If he can, he ll spin the bike around slowly and make donuts on the road. The rounder the donut, the more respect the biker gets from his peers.She continued: What happens in that situation is that you get a lot of excitement, lots of noise, some fun, and entertainment. The engine of the bike is hot, it has burnt some fuel and rubber, but in reality it has gone nowhere. It is still pretty much in the same place it was before.So too our candidate.Politicians tend to be the poster boys for wheel spinning. They can talk for 20 minutes and say nothing. Corporates the world over tend to promote and celebrate wheel spinners, particularly those whose donuts are a bit rounder than the others.Wheel spinning your investment strategyI took over a client from another advisor earlier this year, after his sister referred him to us. He wanted a review of his portfolio, and recommendations on how to improve his returns. I requested a detailed statement from the existing product provider so I could see exactly what I was dealing with. A day later I was presented with a document of over 80 pages. My immediate thought was; how long has this investment been in place? It turned out that it was less than three years. How many investments does he have then? Two. So what on earth is happening here then?A cursory glance at the summary of the portfolio showed that he had been invested in many of the funds that we were offering our clients. This concerned me because I would be offering the client largely the same or similar funds. However, it did not take too long to establish that the incumbent advisor was managing the portfolio quite aggressively. Some funds were in the portfolio for less than three months, while the funds with the longest holding period had been in the portfolio just over a year. After further digging I discovered that the advisor was in fact applying a model portfolio approach to managing his clients portfolios.A model portfolio is where clients of a similar risk profile are invested into the same portfolio of funds. The advisor, if appropriately licensed, is able to effect a switch out of one fund in the model portfolio and all clients in that model will then no longer have exposure to that fund. It is administratively efficient for the advisor; he/she does not need to spend time seeing all affected clients and getting them to sign switch forms. They are sometimes referred to as wraps , and sometimes there is a discretionary fund manager (DFM) involved in the management of the portfolio.Typically, the sales pitch in such an instance is that the advisor can move in and out of funds as market conditions change, and as opportunities open up. There is also an additional fee levied to the client for the privilege of investing in a model portfolio, although the client gets assurance from the fact that there is an investment committee/DFM monitoring everything: the markets, the fund managers of the underlying funds, economic data, etc. Therein lies the problem. To justify the additional fee, the advisor and his committee/DFM feel obliged to show some activity.The result can be an overly-traded portfolio, lots of excitement and movement but little progress in the end as transaction fees and taxes eat into returns.To be fair, the returns on the statement were not horrible &#8211; marginally above inflation and largely in line with the relevant sector average. However, when the client produced a tax certificate showing his capital gains tax bill for the year, much of those returns were erased. A nice round donut after fees and taxes. The client was told that he had to pay CGT because his portfolio was growing, which is not the case. He had to pay CGT because his portfolio was being actively traded, and every switch was a CGT event.If the client had remained invested in the funds he had at the start of the year, he d have gotten a similar return, but not had a CGT bill to go with it. To be fair, again, his preservation fund portfolio did not attract capital gains tax. But after fees, his returns fell below inflation over the period. A donut in real terms I guess.Are model portfolios all bad?No. As with many other things it is how they are used that is problematic. While administrative efficiency is great for the adviser, it does not automatically translate into a benefit for the client. I first encountered a DFM-managed portfolio about two years ago, when I reviewed the portfolio of a client with a fairly large investment portfolio. He applied a multi-advisor approach to managing his portfolio, and the other advisor employed the services of a DFM. His first words to me in that meeting were So, what is your CGT bill for this year? he had reviewed the other portfolio a bit earlier and discovered that he had a significant CGT bill for the previous tax year.I would argue that there should be no fee charged to the client for managing the model, as the benefit is primarily to the advisor. He/She can use all the time that they save from not having to get clients to sign switch forms, to get new clients and grow his/her book.Some of the established asset managers do not want any dealings with some of the DFMs/wrap funds because of the very short-term holding periods and the disruption caused by big inflows and outflows.The committees/DFMs will argue that they add value by doing the asset allocation in the portfolio. That may be true, but I would rather have established managers such as Allan Gray, Foord, Investec, Prudential, Coronation, etc. doing asset allocation for my clients via their multi-asset funds. They have long track records and are arguably a whole lot better at it.Oh, and when they change asset allocation in their funds, it is not a CGT event for the client. So the client gets superior asset allocation, lower cost, and tax efficiency.Not donuts.Craig Gradidge is co-founder of Gradidge-Mahura Investments.