London-based public relations firm Bell Pottinger has pulled the plug on its relationship with the Gupta family and announced the termination of its services with Oakbay Investments on Wednesday. The contract was estimated to be worth 100 000 pounds per month at the outset. But the ante had been upped by a number of political parties and civic organisations that had identified the company for sowing seeds of racial tensions and for orchestrating a propaganda campaign that deflected attention and criticism away from the President and the Gupta family, and instead at White Monopoly Capital. Pottinger started to pay the high price tag of its relationship with the Guptas when corporate South Africa turned its back on the firm, including Pan African Resources, Tharisa Plc, Investec and Richemont.Lately, the collateral damage has spread to the firm&#8217;s home market, as civic organisations asked existing clients of the firm, which included the likes of Richard Branson, to investigate its role in supporting the activities of the family and that of the President &#8211; who many regard to be criminal and treasonous. Protest marches were also being planned at the company&#8217;s head office. In response to Moneyweb&#8217;s statement, Bell Pottinger said: &#8221; On Friday 31 March the South Africa Communist Party released a report Bell Pottinger &#8211; PR support for the Gupta family. The report was anonymous, gave no sources for its allegations and contained many statements about this firm and our work for Oakbay that were wholly untrue.Since then a concerted social media campaign has been waged against this firm and certain of its Partners and staff, with personally abusive and threatening comments on social media platforms. Bell Pottinger has been happy to deny on the record all the allegations made against it, the firm and its Partners and staff hold themselves to the highest professional standards. To suggest that we would stoke racial tension in South Africa is both insulting and wrong.For the last year we have been working to help Oakbay defend itself from attacks on its reputation, correcting misrepresentations and defending it and its owners from politically motivated attack. In recent times the tactics of Oakbay s detractors have changed; Bell Pottinger has been targeted and become the story. The unfounded and unsourced report referred to above is the latest example of the campaign against us. Unfortunately, in this regard, they have had some success and we have to accept that this has compromised our ability to be an effective advocate for our client.It is therefore with regret that we have suggested to Oakbay, and have mutually agreed with them, that we will step down from our role as communications advisers with immediate effect. In all our work for Oakbay we have seen no evidence of wrongdoing.&#8221;