SIKI MGABADELI: The tax ombudsman will investigate alleged undue delays by the South African Revenue Service in paying out tax refunds. This is the first such review and follows recent amendments to the Act which came into operation on January 18 this year. It will involve all categories of tax refunds.Gert van Heerden is the senior manager for legal services with the Tax Ombud, and Pieter Faber is senior executive for tax and legislation at Saica. Gentlemen, thanks for your time today.Pieter, let me start with you. Let&#8217;s just take a few steps back and talk about when and how this problem was identified.PIETER FABER: Hi, Siki, and hi to all your listeners. Yes, I do believe we need to take a step back just to understand why this problem is actually quite complex. If we look at the timeline, it&#8217;s been around for quite some time. That s because when we deal with things like refunds, when a refund is not paid obviously there is unhappiness about it. What we do need to understand is what has caused that specific [problem]. We look at this and we need to understand it.Firstly, in law revenue [agents] have the right to withhold refunds in certain circumstances, and there are various reasons why they are allowed to do so. Secondly, they are also allowed to reduce a refund when certain things are not met, etc. So I think that s the starting point.When we look at this problem, we need to understand that, because there are various reasons in law, each one subject to a process, when something goes wrong in that process or the process is not applied, or the taxpayer does not comply with certain requirements you end up with a problem where the refund is not paid. And then we obviously have a concern from the taxpayer s side.It&#8217;s been a concern for some time. I think it probably increased after the Tax Administration Act, which expanded on the various processes. But I think what has become important recently is the fact that we have what we can call the perfect storm, where we&#8217;ve had a lot of these processes including I think quite a large increase in tax fraud which have resulted in a lot of these processes creating a cumulative effect. This spills out into unhappiness among the public.SIKI MGABADELI: Also we&#8217;ve become used to a quick turnaround when it comes to refunds, to be fair, as taxpayers.Let s bring Gert into this conversation. Maybe take us through the timing of this why is this happening at this point, Gert?GERT VAN HEERDEN: Good afternoon, Siki. Siki, the Tax Ombud s mandate was changed in January this year, and it allows us to look into issues that may possibly affect a group or even all taxpayers in a negative way. Now, before these amendments to legislation, the only review issues that were evident were from formal complaints lodged, and we were essentially bound by those issues that were specifically complained about.This now allows us to be proactive when dealing with possible problems, rather than being reactive based solely on the complaints received. We did see a spike in the number of refund complaints that came through and maybe for valid reasons, some of which Pieter alluded to. So it&#8217;s a suitable time for us to do it now, and the law allows us to do it.SIKI MGABADELI: How will you approach this matter, than, with all parties?GERT VAN HEERDEN: Well, because the Tax Ombud is impartial, this office has to take both sides being solved and taxpayers views into account when we review these kind of issues. So any allegations made would usually emanate from taxpayers or tax practitioners, and may be based on perceptions that may differ from person to person. So we use this extended mandate now to determine whether there are merits in the perceptions. We take the perceptions, we go to Sars and we will say, okay, what are your views on these perceptions? We take all taxpayers and practitioners views into account. And if we do find that there are problems we make a recommendation to Sars on how to rectify these problem areas.SIKI MGABADELI: Would you take on more complaints, or are you just going to deal with the ones that you have now? I&#8217;m just trying to get a sense of how the public can get involved.GERT VAN HEERDEN: The public can at any given time approach us with any one of these issues. Now, there s a difference between the public wanting to lodge specific complaints individually and these kind of things, because these kind of things address the underlying issues that cause the same problems for a lot of taxpayers.In terms of these refund matters, taxpayers can still lodge their complaints with us and that will run parallel to this procedure. So the cases will still go to Sars on a case-by-case basis with the recommendations, if that does fall within our mandate, and if they have exhausted the Sars internal process, while in the background we will be running with this review.But at any given time if taxpayers do have information, that they think we need to take into account. And even with other issues as well, where they think that there are other underlying issues not specifically related to refunds where they have problems they are more than welcome to contact us and then we will do a submission. If we find it is something that needs to be investigated we can do a submission to the minister, and the minister may give approval, if he thinks that it&#8217;s something worth investigating, for us to do a separate review on it.SIKI MGABADELI: Is Saica going to involved in supporting this initiative?PIETER FABER: Yes, definitely. I think we have been involved in this concern and process for quite a few years, and I think we were the first to do some preliminary research to address some of the perceptions and determine whether some of them are real or not. I think that s the type of support we can give.Firstly, I think, is actually giving that insight into where we have seen processes. We are essentially connecting the dots. So at the end of the day you are not just seeing a refund being withheld, but the reason why it&#8217;s its happening and the processes that are either going wrong or not being applied be it by Sars or the taxpayer and [we are] giving insights to the Ombud on that process.Secondly, I think the support from our side is obviously that we give access to a lot of our members who have insights into these processes and deal with them on daily basis. And we can then channel those back to both Sars and the Ombud in actually coming up with solutions.SIKI MGABADELI: Gert mentioned the extended mandate of the Tax Ombud. How do you as Saica see that impacting on our rights as taxpayers going forward?PIETER FABER: I think it&#8217;s important that we need to know that, when we asked for the Ombud to be created back in 2010 in the Tax Administration Act, it was that we were actually seeking for call it a non-adversarial, something akin to a CCMA, in seeking to resolve problems. I think what the extended mandate does is that, as Gert noted, it allows the Ombud to look proactively at things and, before things boil over, address these concerns and see where things are going wrong and that we actually address them.SIKI MGABADELI: Gert, how do people complain? Where do they send their details?GERT VAN HEERDEN: Well, normal individual complaints can be sent to our email address at complaints@taxombud.gov.za. But where they do want to bring or raise concerns with us in relation to underlying issues that may impact more than one taxpayer, they can send them to office@taxombud.gov.za.SIKI MGABADELI: Alright. We&#8217;ll leave it there. Thanks so much to both of you for your time today. Gert van Heerden is senior manager for legal services at the Tax Ombud and Pieter Faber is senior executive for tax and legislation at Saica.