Over the last few days investors have been buffeted by news of rising South African bond yields. On Monday last week, before former finance minister Pravin Gordhan was summoned back from Treasury&#8217;s international investor roadshow, 10-year government bonds were yielding 8.285%. On Tuesday, following S&amp;P&#8217;s credit downgrade, the same bonds were offering yields of over 9.0%.To understand what this means, it&#8217;s first important to appreciate what government bonds are. Simply put, they are loans to the state.By buying a bond you are lending money to the South African government with the promise that over a set period it will pay you back your initial capital, plus interest. The bond yield is the interest rate that you will receive.The immediate impact of higher bond yields on South Africa&#8217;s finances is therefore quite obvious. Government will have to pay more interest on its debt, in the same way that rising interest rates would mean that you have to pay more on your home loan.Before last week&#8217;s upheavals, anyone buying a new 10-year bond would have been paid an annual interest rate of 8.285% by the South African government. Now, the government is having to pay 9.0% on exactly the same instrument.The reason for the higher rate is because these bonds are now higher risk. With any fixed income investment, if you are going to take more risk you must be compensated with a higher return.Nobody would buy South African government bonds if they offered the same yield as US government bonds. That is why the market adjusts yields up or down as risks increase or decrease.What is important to remember, however, is that government bonds are very liquid. There is a huge secondary market where they are traded in large volumes.In other words, the bonds that South Africa issued ten days ago at 8.285% can still be bought and sold. And this is why their price also goes up and down.To explain this, it is better to use a very simplified example.Imagine that you had bought a R1 000 ten year bond offering a yield of 8%. What that means is that every year you would be paid out R80 in interest.Ten days later, however, risks increase and the same bond is yielding 9%. Anyone buying one then would therefore be earning R90 per year in interest.Nobody in these circumstances would want to buy a bond that is still only offering 8% per year. If you wanted to sell yours, you would therefore have to drop its price so that its effective rate of interest was at least 9%.That would mean lowering the price to R890, so that the R80 per year it was paying out was above 9%.This is a very simplistic example, since whoever held the bond at maturity would still also get back the R1 000 in initial capital. The change in price would therefore have to take that into account. This is based on a more complicated formula that calculates the total yield to maturity, but the principle is the same.This is why when bond yields rise, bond prices have to adjust downwards and local bond indices such as the Composite All Bond Index (Albi) and Government Bond Index (Govi) will go down in value.As the head of Fixed Interest at Sanlam Investment Management, Mokgatla Madisha, explained in a note to investors on Tuesday: The 90 basis point increase in yields over the last week has reduced bond portfolio values by about 6.6% .This is also reflected in a number of bond unit trusts. Over the last week, a number of these funds have produced sharply negative returns.Two examples are the Absa Bond Fund, which has lost over 4% in the last seven days, and the Allan Gray Bond Fund, which is 3.5% down.