We are more than a quarter into 2017 and it&#8217;s quite clear that South Africans are scared of the local equity market and are trying to gain non-JSE exposure. The big question is, when you take your money offshore, what are the options and where is the best place to look for exposure?Common logic suggests the US equity market. It s a good hedge against rand weakness, the market is deep and liquid and many of the world s best businesses are listed there.Perhaps the best starting point is to look at the up-take of the new CoreShares S&amp;P 500 Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF). In less than six months, the ETF attracted more than R300 million in assets under management. If one considers that the specialist Ashburton Mid-Cap ETF had not attracted R200 million by December 2016 (listed in August 2012) then this is an impressive feat for a new product in the South African market.When retail clients look to invest offshore, their first step usually is to get in touch with their financial advisor, where the advisor will generally position them into feeder funds where they will be mainly exposed to offshore funds. There are two things that investors should understand here, (a) although the investor&#8217;s money is exposed to a foreign currency and foreign assets, the client&#8217;s money does not necessarily physically leave the country and remains in South Africa; (b) the funds are mostly comprised of companies that have a market capitalisation of US$10 billion or more. Again if we look at the CoreShares offering, you get exposure to Apple, Microsoft, Exxon, Amazon, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Berkshire Hathaway, JP Morgan, Facebook, General Electric and Wells Fargo. These are all great brands but if everybody is buying the same thing, are you necessarily going to get tactical offshore exposure?As a South African resident you are allowed to take R1 million out of the country without tax clearance and up to R10 million per person annually with obtained tax clearance. By taking advantage of the annual foreign allowance, an investor could transfer his/her money to a foreign investment account where they are directly exposed to a foreign-denominated currency of their choice. This route opens the opportunity to a much greater universe of shares or ETFs to invest in, which leads me to my second point.The S&amp;P 500 (a capitalisation-weighted index of 500 leading stocks in the US) is currently comprised of:SectorMarket capitalisationAmount of companiesMega-capUS$200 billion or greater19Large-capUS$10 &#8211; 200 billion382Mid-capUS$2 &#8211; 10 billion99To put this into perspective, we can look at the telecommunication services sector and compare Verizon Communications (a US-listed company) to MTN Group (a familiar SA-listed company). Verizon has a US$201.55 billion market capitalisation versus MTN with a R227 billion (US$17 billion), which indicates that Verizon is almost 12 times the size of MTN. Most investors in SA would feel comfortable to invest their money in a company the size of MTN, seeing that it falls within the Top 40 companies in SA, yet it is at the lower end of the large-cap sector in the US and not far from being classified as a mid-cap stock in the US.The majority of mutual funds are exposed to the higher end of the large-cap and mega-cap sectors and although most are some of the most successful companies globally, I feel one should also be open to explore the rest of the universe by looking what the lower end of the large-cap and mid-cap sector has to offer.I would like to briefly elaborate on two companies that probably most South Africans have never heard of, that we have been holding for quite some time now as part of our offshore portfolios &#8211; Brookfield Infrastructure Partners and The Match Group.Brookfield Infrastructure Partners (BIP) is one of the largest publicly listed infrastructure companies in America and is the flagship infrastructure company of Brookfield Asset Management, a leading global alternative asset manager with approximately $250 billion of assets under management. BIP owns and operates infrastructure assets across five continents (North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australasia) and includes ports, toll roads, railways, utilities, natural gas transmission and telecommunication towers. According to our calculations and keeping in mind that conservative expectations were used (relative to consensus) the company s fair price range is between US$36 &#8211; $42. In addition to the possible capital appreciation, the company pays a hefty dividend of approximately 4.8% and we expect the dividend growth to continue in the region of 10%-12% per annum going forward.The Match Group is the world s leading provider of dating products, redefining the way millions of people meet, date and start relationships every day. The company has a market cap of US$4.66 billion, offering a portfolio of over 45 brands, translated into nearly 40 languages and available across more than 190 countries around the world. The firm s principal brands include Match.com, Tinder, Meetic, OkCupid and PlentyOfFish, which generate revenues through a combination of subscription, transaction and advertising models, distributed through desktop and mobile devices. What truly caught my attention is the fact that Match has grown its revenues in the US at a 25.7% compound annual growth rate over the last five years.While there are no guarantees in the world of investing, this highlights that there are opportunities outside of the large cap S&amp;P 500 stocks being pushed onto South Africa investors at the moment. If one considers that many of the world&#8217;s top investment managers are now warning that the Trump Trade has run its course and real returns in the US are likely to be at lower end of 3% per annum in fact European equities seem to be back in vogue then it means that investors need to start getting more tactical about how they deploy their capital.Getting out of South Africa is one thing but blindly putting money into low-growth environments, is an equally bad idea. Iwan Swiegers is director at Capilis Asset Managers.