Millennials make up a third of the workforce, and are not won over by healthcare and life cover, like their babyboomer parents. These are expected to be part of the package, but they seek extra perks related to overall health, wellness and quality of life. Research has shown that the implementation of well-structured and appropriately priced employee benefits (EB) is good for employees, as well as company profitability, and that flexibility can be a deal-breaker.According to Gareth Collier, director at Crue Invest, employees who are in control of their finances and their debt are bound to be more productive, display higher attendance and demonstrate greater company loyalty. Providing group benefits encourages engagement between business owners and employees, and sends a clear message that the employer cares about the staff and their loved ones, said Collier. We have learnt that group benefits are a key factor in employee satisfaction, productivity and overall staff well-being, he added. Group benefits generally include a retirement fund, as well as life and disability cover for the employee. They can extend to medical aid, funeral plans, dread disease cover and gap cover, depending on the employer s commitment to its employees. Group benefits are generally less expensive than individual cover because the employee group is underwritten as a whole and well-structured employee benefits assist in attracting top quality people. Well-structured employee benefits can make a company an employer of choice . Collier advised that the EB market is highly complex with a range of different products available. Without the help of an expert, companies can end up with a set of hodge-podge products that are not well-integrated and poorly structured.Five tips to business owners for Employee Benefits:Some life insurance and medical aid companies offer rewards programmes with significant benefits for those who choose to engage fully with them. For millennials, who have a propensity for apps and online functionality, access to these rewards programmes could be a deal-breaker. On the other hand, user-intensive rewards programmes do not necessarily appeal to more mature staff, and employers will be faced with a dilemma hence the need to offer customisable solutions.Millennials love the idea of a one-stop shop, and that includes financial planning. Whereas older generations had a life insurance broker, a medical aid broker and sought the advice of the HR manager on pension fund benefit selections, Millennials want fiercely independent financial planning advice from one person or organisation that can provide advice on everything risk, retirement, medical aid, gap cover, estate planning and investing. An independent financial advisor should be able to sit with a client, help him select the correct employee benefits for his needs, and then help him fill any shortfalls through personalised solutions.Gareth Collier is director at Crue Invest.