The Nova Property Group, the rescue vehicle of the failed Sharemax scheme, deliberately kept Moneyweb tied up in court for more than three years to muzzle the news site as its articles were apparently hampering the property group s ability to get funding from banks.Nova CEO Dominique Haese made this startling revelation on a special broadcast on Carte Blanche on Sunday night. (The video will only be available for a few days).Haese said during the broadcast: We were extremely busy far down the line with funding and every time something gets written it hampers that process. So by keeping Moneyweb in court and away without being able to publish anything, it helped the process of achieving funding lines. This is why we ve been fighting them all along. This is in stark contrast to the other justifications of the protracted court case, which included a lengthy affidavit from Haese that the directors have a constitutional right to privacy to keep their wealth a secret, a view the Supreme Court of Appeal dismissed. Nova also alleged that Moneyweb was waging a vendetta against the directors and would use the information in the shareholder registers to defame them.Extraordinary reactionI did not intend to write an opinion piece about the Nova saga until auditing firm BDO released the findings of an extensive investigation it initiated in November last year, but Haese s remarks cannot be left unanswered. Her suggestion that Nova muzzled Moneyweb as our reporting harmed their ability to get funding is an extraordinary revelation. It is clearly only an effort to divert the attention away from the fact that the directors acquired an 87% shareholding in the company without paying a cent, which has never been announced publicly. This shareholding gives the directors absolute control of the company and this outcome was most definitely not the original intent of the 311 Scheme of Arrangement.No stakeholder would have approved a scheme that proposed that the four directors would receive 87% of the shares of the rescue vehicle for free. The author of this miracle rescue plan , the current chairman Connie Myburgh, as well as two former Sharemax directors (Haese and Dirk Koekemoer) each received 22%.What makes this even worse is that the 2 000 debenture holders who elected to receive Nova shares effectively paid R100 million for their collective 4.3% shareholding.The conflict of interest is startling.Admittedly, the formula that resulted in this scenario was included in the original scheme of arrangement that was sanctioned by investors (hidden away in a paragraph in an appendix). No one raised it as a concern at the time, probably because everyone was so fearful at the prospect of losing their investments that the 87% outcome was never anticipated. The fact that it transpired could suggest that it was never a fair scheme.SalariesThe most notable result of the 87% shareholding is that the directors have the ability to set and approve their own salaries. I believe, and a benchmark study proves this, that the salaries the directors pay themselves are totally excessive and that the company can not afford it.Haese defended these salaries again on Carte Blanche and stated that the average salary of the four directors since the inception of the scheme is only around R2.5 million per year. This is not true. She included the one month s salary the directors earned in 2012 as the remuneration for a full financial year in her calculation. The actual average salary per director over the past four full financial years is around R4.1 million, if accrued bonuses are included. These salaries are also a massive drain on the cash flow of the company. If one only looks at the cash salaries received in 2016, the directors paid themselves 17% of each cash rand of rental income the group received from customers. The company simply cannot afford these salaries and I doubt whether a properly constituted independent board would have approved such remuneration packages.The table below shows the directors&#8217; salaries since the inception of the scheme and includes accrued bonuses. &nbsp;&#8216;The media&#8217; and &#8216;reputational risk&#8217;I also believe that the quaint notion that the media and the consequential reputational risk is responsible for Nova s inability to get external funding is worthy of a reply. Nova has peddled this narrative over the past few years as a key reason behind the abysmal operational performance of the company.&#8220;The media&#8221; is also apparently the reason why the company cannot find any independent directors to serve on its board (and the audit committee whose composition is currently in contravention of the Companies Act) as these candidates are apparently concerned about the reputational risk of being associated with Nova. That is just utter rubbish.The question should rather be: Why is there reputational risk? Potential independent directors should line up to serve on the board if this rescue scheme was a token of good corporate governance. But it is not. Haese even claimed during a previous interview on RSG that it was &#8220;unfair&#8221; to expect the board to comply with the King III codes of good corporate governance.This is the reason why banks and potential directors are avoiding Nova. It&#8217;s not the media.Nova s auditor, BDOMoneyweb has done as much as any media institution can to inform stakeholders of conduct of this nature. We spent three years fighting this case at considerable financial cost for a small media company. In all fairness, we never thought the case would reach the Constitutional Court, but we continued with the fight even once it became apparent that we were in for the long haul.The ball is now in the court of Nova s auditor, BDO, which has signed off Nova s financial statements since its inception in 2012, without any qualifications.The group is conducting an extensive investigation into the financials after receiving questions from Moneyweb regarding the fair and reasonableness of the original 311 Scheme of Arrangement and other financial aspects, including the apparently inflated valuation of two of the groups largest assets, The Villa and Zambezi.This investigation was initiated in November last year and is ongoing.Nova takes exception to Moneyweb reportsI should add, that the four directors have taken strong exception to my reporting over the past few months and have broken off all communication. They even issued a press statement stating that my reports contained numerous untruths, inaccuracies, and negative innuendoes . Read the Nova press statement, notice to debenture and shareholders holders and other comments here. I suggest that readers read their responses and make up their own minds.