As domestic economic growth looks set to increase from 2016 to 2017, confidence levels among members of the South African delegation at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, is higher, says Mike Brown, CEO of Nedbank. The key message is that South Africa is open for business. We recognise that 2016 was a turbulent year on many fronts in South Africa, but with business, government and labour working together we have emerged stronger than people expected, Brown told Moneyweb.Brown, who is attending the forum for the seventh time, said the South African government is delivering a consistent message to potential investors by speaking of its nine-point plan to grow the economy and create jobs, as well as on-going structural reforms and the working relationship between government, business and labour. He said investors are also very interested in the country s succession debate.The leadership race for the ruling African National Conference appears to have begun, with the party expected to appoint a successor to President Jacob Zuma at its elective conference in December. Various reports suggest that Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, Zweli Mkhize, Cyril Ramaphosa and Baleka Mbete are in the running for the post. The ruling party leader is likely to become president of South Africa after the general election in 2019. Interest in the incoming US administration, led by President-Elect Donald Trump, has also been running high. Much investor concern is focused on what policies President Trump will actually be able to deliver -versus what he tweets &#8211; and what the consequences of these could be for emerging markets like South Africa. Generally, investors feel President Trump&#8217;s policies will strengthen the dollar, with negative impacts on countries with high levels of dollar debt &#8211; thankfully South Africa has low levels of dollar debt, said Brown.According to South African Reserve Bank Governor Lesetja Kganyago, Trump s potential effect on South Africa remains unclear. What we are facing now is an increasing environment of uncertainty, which makes determining policy a significant challenge, Kganyago told Bloomberg on the sidelines of WEF.He said a stronger US dollar, which may be the result of a Trump-backed fiscal stimulus, will affect trade, dollar-denominated debt and the flow of capital to emerging market economies. Brown said central discussions around increased nationalism and populism, as evidenced by the Brexit referendum and US election result, are focused on the middle class not seeing improvements in their wealth, on the back of globalisation and advancements in technology. In all parts of the world this is the time for responsible leadership that ensures all citizens are listened to, and for leaders not to be disconnected from the real world, he said.