JOHANNESBURG The Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA) insists it is not trying to fix something that isn t broken by introducing mandatory audit firm rotation (MAFR).The IRBA is facing stern opposition to its plan to introduce MAFR in an effort to strengthen auditor independence and enhance audit quality with some questioning its motives for introducing what they believe is a failed concept when South Africa s auditing standards are considered the best in the world.The World Economic Forum s Global Competitiveness Report 2016/17 ranks the strength of South Africa s auditing and reporting standards first out of a 138 countries.But Bernard Agulhas, CEO of the IRBA, says the ranking is not based on the quality of audits or auditors. As it pertains to auditing, it is a ranking on the strength of the process to develop and issue new auditing standards, so it reflects the strength of the IRBA s consultation, its comment process, its ability and the robustness of monitoring and inspections to assess compliance, and its capability to hold non-compliance accountable. The IRBA, a public protection statutory body established to protect the financial interests of the public, has received more than 65 submissions as part of the public consultation process on MAFR. Pending the conclusion of the consultation process, MAFR is set to take effect on April 1, 2023, with the required rotation being every ten years.The decision to implement MAFR was announced in August last year.But while there seems to be support for efforts to strengthen auditor independence and quality, several parties have questioned whether MAFR will assist in achieving such an outcome. South Africa s auditing standards are consistently rated as the best in the world, which makes us and many others question why [the] IRBA is looking to introduce this failed concept here, Naspers Group CFO, Basil Sgourdos said in a statement. Mandatory audit firm rotation has proved to be a disaster in virtually every market where it has been introduced. In Europe, for example, it cost an estimated 16 billion to implement, although the private sector believes the cost could be as much as 32 billion. As in other markets that went down this road and later reversed its decision, there is no evidence to date that it has done anything at all to increase audit independence. In its submission, the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (Saica) says global consensus has not been reached on this matter, and the impact of MAFR in those jurisdictions that have adopted MAFR has not been fully assessed. There has not been universal acceptance or rejection of MAFR (and other related measures), and there has been implementation of such measures in other jurisdictions with mixed results. Saica says it is not clear why MAFR should be implemented urgently as opposed to waiting to understand the impact that recent changes (for example the new auditor report) have had.The Association of International Certified Professional Accountants also came out in strong opposition of the plan arguing that MAFR may negatively impact audit quality, increase market concentration and hinder the transformation of the profession. It is clear from at least some of the regulatory regimes that have adopted it that MAFR has not had the intended benefits and its continuation is either being questioned or discontinued. MAFR takes away the key responsibility of audit committees which, along with the boards of directors, are in the best position to watch management actions and ensure that companies are obtaining high quality audits to protect the investing public, it says.Some commentators also seem to be concerned about a potential loss of institutional knowledge and cost implications.But Agulhas believes there are various principles that support MAFR as a solution. Where there is competition quality improves, a fresh set of eyes on a new client will be more skeptical and able to challenge accounting practices and management judgements. He says a long tenure and close relationships can lead to complacency, unconscious bias or familiarity that has the potential to create situations where independence is at the least perceived to be impeded and at worst lead to an inappropriate audit opinion. An inappropriate audit opinion could result in investors making the wrong investment decisions. The IRBA does not believe that partner rotation is sufficient, as it has not received any complaints from audit firms or partners against a partner in the same firm where the partner delivered poor quality audits. It is of critical importance that the auditor who performs checks on CFOs and Financial Directors on behalf of shareholders, remains completely independent of those CFOs and Financial Directors. Agulhas says they have been tracking audit fees on JSE listed companies and costs do not increase substantially when a new firm was appointed. Other jurisdictions have evidence that fees can decrease on rotation most likely in the case of audit firm rotation in conjunction with mandatory audit tendering and as firms compete to win the work. In every jurisdiction, except Italy, the period for which MAFR has been implemented is too short to say empirically whether it works or not. In our review of G20 and International Forum of Independent Audit Regulators (IFIAR) member countries, 30 have or will implement MAFR. IFIAR has 52 members, who only qualify for membership if the regulator is truly independent of the profession, he says.A report with all the submissions will be compiled and tabled at the IRBA s February board meeting.Agulhas says the board will consider any new information which is brought to its attention and which could inform the final requirements.