One of the most striking things about investment markets is that they can, at times, be irrational. Despite the amount of information available, market behaviour can still be determined more by human biases than cold reason.The chief investment officer at PSG Asset Management, Greg Hopkins, points out that a common market mistake is the tendency to extrapolate the recent past into the future. This happens particularly when certain conditions have existed for some time and it becomes conventional wisdom to assume that they will simply continue. Over the last five years, the global economy has been characterised by conditions of low growth, low interest rates and low rates of inflation, Hopkins says. As a result, central banks have had to engage in a whole lot of stimulus and, because this has persisted for so long, it has become ingrained in market thinking that these kind of conditions are going to persist. He notes that many commentators now talk about this low-growth environment as if it can&#8217;t reverse, and that interest rates have to stay low. These conditions have been extrapolated into the future, and been priced into the market, Hopkins says. Because growth has been scarce, any security that has offered any sort of yield or certain growth &#8211; in other words bond-like equities that are giving quite safe, high yields &#8211; have been bid up to very high levels. Even though South Africa hasn&#8217;t seen any central bank stimulus of its own, the JSE has nevertheless followed this global trend. We have an open economy and are influenced by global events, Hopkins says. The effect in South Africa has perhaps even been increased, because the rand has been weak and the bond-like blue chip companies in our market are rand hedges as well, so they have been in even more demand. This search for quality has meant that certain areas of the market, such as consumer staples and consumer discretionary, have grown very expensive. At the same time, more cyclical businesses and those whose earnings are more dependent on economic growth have been heavily sold off. Because these companies haven&#8217;t grown, there&#8217;s a perception that they won&#8217;t grow, and the prices of those securities have fallen to low levels, Hopkins explains. And because this has persisted for so long, the extent of that mis-pricing paying up too much for perceived growth and under paying for cyclical companies became so pervasive that we saw a reversal starting in the first quarter of last year, and that reversal has been quite significant. An analysis by PSG Asset Management, that will appear in the company&#8217;s upcoming quarterly newsletter, shows that in early 2016 the dispersion between the cheapest and most expensive parts of the market, based on price-to-book ratios, had reached multi-year highs. As the chart below shows, it had not been this wide since the dotcom bubble in 2000.Click on graph to enlarge it&nbsp;The chart also shows that over the course of last year this dispersion began to reverse. Hopkins believes that investors should take note of this as this could be an inflection point. Some of the cheaper, cyclical companies have started to outperform quite significantly against the more expensive bond-like, quality, blue chip companies, he says. And when we look back we see some parallels between this and what happened in the early 2000s, post the dotcom bubble. When it reversed at that point, it reversed for a number of years, Hopkins points out. We&#8217;re not sure whether what we are seeing now will also be a multi-year trend, but the odds are in your favour if you invest as if that is the case. At PSG we believe there is a large margin of safety in certain segments of the market and significant overvaluation and potential risk in other parts. He argues that this is also not just a story about the rebound in resource stocks. It does seem that companies that are geared more to economic growth have stared to perform, not just resources, Hopkins says. This includes some industrial stocks, and financials. In the US, banks have done particularly well. So it does seem to be a bit more widespread. This doesn&#8217;t however mean that PSG is going into the coming year expecting to make massive returns. We actually enter this year a little more cautious than we were a year ago, Hopkins says. Valuations are still looking extended across many parts of the global market. As stock prices have been rising we have been selling, reducing our exposure to equities and raising cash. There are good opportunities in the market, but we still need to be cautious. This article was sponsored by PSG Asset Management.