One of the men accused of buying a bank at the behest of the Guptas says he has been unfairly tarnished by links that his business partner, Salim Essa, has to the Guptas.Hamza Farooqui is a successful entrepreneur whose business dealings span property, asset management and media. His past achievements have included building the country s first dry hotel, and in 2011 the Mail &amp; Guardian named him as one of the Top 200 Young South Africans.He hotly disputes the notion that he and Essa were bidding to help the Guptas out by acquiring the Habib Overseas Bank Limited, following the termination of banking relationships by the Big Four banks (comprising Nedbank, Standard bank, FNB and ABSA) that began in February last year. The concept of buying a bank came into inception three years ago. It did not just appear suddenly, he says, and he points to the history his family has with banking and the bank concerned his father s entire career was in banking and he worked for Habib for 22 years.But according to Farooqui, the formal process of buying the bank only began in July last year, when he instructed his lawyers to advise the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) they were initiating a due diligence process ahead of a possible transaction. This was followed by a formal application on August 31 to acquire the bank from Habib. I also know how highly regulated banking is, and I wanted the best people to partner with me, he says in response to questions regarding why Essa is his business partner in the venture. I have known Salim for the last 18 years, so my view is not jaundiced by some unproven allegations against him. We had a meeting of the minds on what we wanted to achieve. The client base of the bank is Muslim, and we want to build an Islamic banking platform, one that provides focused financing to Muslim entrepreneurs. Farooqui says he has no commercial relationships with the Guptas. Yes, I know them. Just as I know many other prominent business people. There are no plans for the Guptas to be equity shareholders in the bank. But would the bank offer the Guptas and related entities banking services? There is a very established process in dealing with these types of clients. If the Guptas complied with the risk framework of the bank, why should I prejudice them or anybody else? says Farooqui. Once the news had become public that Farooqui and Essa were attempting to buy a bank, many of Farooqui s business partners began terminating their relationships with him. This included Old Mutual, with which Farooqui developed the Old Mutual Al Baraka Fund, a relationship that dates back some 16 years. They issued a withdrawal notice three days after the article was published in the Mail &amp; Guardian. And some of the top tier law firms declined to represent us because of the perceived reputational risk, he says.Farooqui also thinks the media has pre-judged the issue, and wonders why everyone doesn&#8217;t let the regulator complete its work before drawing conclusions. I feel that I have been unfairly tarnished with the brush, so I shudder to think what happens to other people. There is an elite system which needs to change. Why can&#8217;t I be doing the same thing Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor did all those years ago? Looking for somebody to help you build wealth? Name* Surname* Contact Number* Email* Province:The Eastern CapeThe Free StateGautengKwaZulu-NatalLimpopoMpumalangaThe Northern CapeNorth WestThe Western CapeApproximate Portfolio SizeI require: Alternative Investments Derivatives Financial Planner Forex Trading Managed Portfolio Offshore Investing Tax Free Investment Accounts Technical Trading Education EmailThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.