Nedbank Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB) expects continued regulatory uncertainty to further weigh on the South African mining industry in 2017. I think 2017 is going to be a particularly serious year for the mining industry in South Africa. And there s a very real chance that we are going to do further damage to our mining industry simply because South Africa inc. doesn t seem to have got its head around what it wants from its mining industry, said Paul Miller, principal of mining finance. He said the fundamental uncertainty in the regulatory environment doesn t relate to the legislative process regarding amendments to existing laws but rather in the way in which laws are constructed. Uncertainty, discretion and the lack of timelines is actually built into our regulations, it s built into our law, he said.According to Miller, in some cases the discretion awarded to the minister of mineral resources and delegated to various officials with vague guidelines often leads to different interpretations of the law by different officials.He went on to add that a lack of set timeframes in which officials must make decisions is problematic. He said Optimum Coal s section 11 application was approved within weeks of application while Keaton Energy, which submitted a similar application in May 2016, is still waiting on a decision from the department of mineral resources. None of what I m saying applies to the state s transformation objectives or to whatever its policy is. The process is inherently uncertain, [it] remains so, and no amount of amendments or new versions of the charter are going to change that until you go right back and say we want certainty on timelines, on the requirements for how decisions are made, he said.He said the 2017 regulatory year will be influenced by concerns about the environmental obligation of companies under the National Environmental Management Act and the Malan Scholes case, which seeks to set aside the mining charter. Multiple legal challenges related to the former Public Protector s State of Capture Report, largely influenced by Optimum Coal, are also expected during the course of the year.Read: Concerns about the obligations of companies under NEMA here.Although the regulatory environment is expected to become more fraught, if commodity prices recover the domestic sector will not necessarily do so but rather tread water, Miller said. Despite the challenges vexing the industry, Nedbank CIB s mining unit is said to have had a remarkable year in 2016.According to Nivaash Singh, head of mining finance international, the unit closed 24 debt finance deals across 10 African countries and nine commodities, with a total deal value of around R20 billion. We ve just come through the worst commodity cycle, I think, in living memory. Nonetheless, we ve had a good year and we re optimistic, he said.He said the group is actively growing its African lending franchise to provide a full spectrum of finance solutions in other jurisdictions. The growth is expected to come from an alliance partnership with the pan-African Ecobank, a Nedbank subsidiary as well as by following clients into the rest of Africa and carefully selecting the right projects, with the right companies and the right management teams .Singh said the Nedbank unit would encourage the use of South African capital, goods and services, in projects outside the country as this would allow it to source insurance through the South African government as part of export finance agreements. 