South African banking stocks weathered a volatile 2016 to post collective returns in excess of 25% over the calendar year. And although the sector is likely to come under some pressure in 2017, experts say banks still offer value relative to other shares on the South African market. The Banks Index rose by 26.97% in 2016 while the benchmark Top 40 Index fell by 4.14% and the All Share Index remained flat. The key driver of the performance was that South Africa avoided the sovereign credit rating downgrade by the ratings agencies in December. The noise around the political concerns had also toned down as they year progressed. Both these factors supported the banking stocks, said Neelash Hansjee, a banking analyst at Old Mutual Equities. Shares in domestic banks started the year on the back foot, following the surprise axing of Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister in December 2015, and have since withstood weak macroeconomic variables, currency volatility and political instability.Domestic factors that weighed on the economy included high inflation and record high unemployment. While fears of a ratings downgrade and political noise, marked by allegations of state capture as well as the seemingly trumped up fraud charges against finance minister Pravin Gordhan, impacted the rand.Among individual stocks, Standard Bank was the best performer with returns of 28.67% from December 31 2015 to December 30 2016. Standard Bank was presenting very good value at around R100 per share in January 2016 so it s probably not that surprising that the share recovered so well, said Adrian Cloete, a portfolio manager at PSG Wealth. He added that the banking group s shares were buoyed by solid interim results, with headline earnings per share of 5% beating market expectations of a 1% increase. Shares in Capitec, Nedbank, FirstRand and Barclays Africa rose by 24.69%, 22.75%, 19.58% and 13.21% respectively. Barclays Africa s performance was affected by Barclays PLC selling a 12% stake in the bank, such that it now owns 50% of Barclays Africa. Barclays PLC have, in my view, through this demonstrated their commitment to the sell-down as now they can only account for 50% of Barclays Africa s profits but still need to hold capital as if they owned 100%. The market might be concerned therefore about a potential overhang of the Barclays PLC 50% stake in Barclays Africa, Cloete said.He is of the view that the risk is overstated as Barclays PLC needs regulatory approval to sell down its stake in Barclays Africa. It s not just about writing a check to buy a stake in a business like when a private equity firm buys a shareholding in an industrial firm. The process needs to cover all systems across 12 countries and cover all laws, it s a bit like selling Barclays Retail Bank in 12 different countries The regulators in all 12 countries will also need comfort that systemic risk is fully covered for the banking systems in each different African country, he explained.Provided that South Africa maintains its investment grade credit rating, experts say banking stocks will offer value relative to other domestic stocks.According to Cloete, Barclays Africa is likely to offer investors more value as its share price has lagged that of its peers. It s current PE of around 9x and dividend yield in excess of 6% places it undervalued relative to the market, he added.Gary Booysen, a portfolio manager at Rand Swiss, stressed the need to be selective when buying banking stocks against a challenging backdrop.Despite FirstRand being more expensive than its peers, with a PE of 13x, its strong track record and ROE of 23% could make it a high quality bank to buy in the face of the more general pessimism in the sector , he said.Capitec, another expensive bank, would likely benefit from a decrease in unemployment and growth in domestic middle class, he added. According to Booysen, continued political noise will make for opportunities to pick up banking stocks. We expect SA politics to be noisy and affect the sentiment surrounding local banking stocks but would see politically-driven sell-offs as an opportunity to accumulate as there will most likely be little impact on underlying earnings, he said.An increase in domestic economic growth and benign interest rate hikes are expected to be supportive of the sector. However, interest rate hikes in the United States are likely to put the rand, domestic interest rates and the banking sector under pressure.