It has been very quiet since Shoprite and Steinhoff announced in mid-December that the two groups would merge to create an African retail giant . No doubt the various parties are hammering out the finer terms of the proposed transaction.Despite the fact that the news was anticipated, the Steinhoff and Shoprite share prices fell 10.9% and 7.7% respectively on the day. Shoprite has since fallen a further 6.2%, which suggests that either a premium was priced into the company on speculation of a deal, or its shareholders remain unconvinced.&nbsp;At the time the deal was announced, most analysts that Moneyweb spoke to were cautious or believed that the deal was neutral to both parties. However Karl Gevers, head of research at Benguela Global Fund Managers, which is invested in Shoprite, has raised some concerns. The proposed deal is not an attractive one for Shoprite shareholders, he says . This is essentially a reverse takeover of Shoprite by Steinhoff, as opposed to Shoprite buying Steinhoff Africa assets. Shoprite shareholders should be adequately compensated for this.&#8221;In summary, the deal will see Shoprite issue new shares to Steinhoff in return for Pepkor, JD Group and a few smaller Steinhoff hardware stores to form the new Retail Africa. Retail Africa will be listed separately. Steinhoff will most likely end up with a stake of above 60% in the new Retail Africa, after Dr Wiese and the PIC have swapped their shares in Shoprite into Steinhoff. The primary beneficiaries of this deal are Dr Wiese (consolidating his assets into Steinhoff) and Steinhoff (reverse takeover of a quality asset in Shoprite), Gevers says.While it sounds glamorous to have an African retail champion, there are three main issues that Shoprite shareholders should consider:Gevers believes that the only way Shoprite shareholders should approve this transaction is if the Steinhoff Africa Retail asset is very attractively valued. &#8220;The share price action since the announcement of the proposed deal (down 10%) is a clear indication of shareholders&#8217; unhappiness about it.&#8221;&#8220;Benguela takes quality and valuation into consideration when making an investment decision for our client funds. One of the key indicators of quality is return on invested capital (ROIC). When looking at Shoprite s historic ROIC compared to Steinhoff, it is clear why we hold Shoprite on behalf of our clients, and why we have little faith in Steinhoff as long-term value creators&#8221;.