The JSE s retail sector gained 4% on healthy trade on Monday, following what analysts were describing as several sets of reasonable results, all things considering.Stocks like Mr Price, Truworths and Woolworths were punished last year following the delivery of disappointing results and poor earnings forecasts in the face of strong economic headwinds.Recent trading updates from Woolworths, Truworths, TFG and Massmart have been far from exuberant, but some were better than others.The trading update from TFG, released on Monday shows that Christmas trading was above expectations, with group sales growth for December (November 27 to December 24) up 14.6%.Massmart saw SA sales pick up slightly over the 52 weeks to December 25 2016 with sales increasing 7.7% to R91.2 billion.Truworths sales during the 26-weeks ended December 25 2016, if one excludes the addition of Office in the UK, remained unchanged relative to the prior period.The economy is not great and retailers have struggled, but analysts have said that recent retail results have surprised to the upside, says Abri du Plessis, CEO at Gryphon Asset Management.Now some analysts are optimistic that with an improving economy (just), retail results could improve further. As a result of this the likes of HSBC, Investec, Merril Lynch and JP Morgan are more positive about the sector than they have been, with some recommendations upgraded from hold to buy .This was enough to set off a flurry of buying. The whole market is quite hot. People have sat on the sidelines and many asset managers are underweight equities. Now people are buying what they can, Du Plessis says.Over the last six months the retail sector was heavily over-sold, with the likes of Mr Price falling from R239 to R138 in November, Truworths from R110 in April to R62 in November and Woolworths falling from R94 in August to R64 in December. Combine this selloff with the fact that analysts are seeing an improving sales trend and people are buying back into the market, says Peter Takaendesa, a portfolio manager at Mergence Investment Managers. The big question is, is it sustainable? Certainly there are some positives in favour of the domestic economy and local retailers, whose sales volumes have remained negative in many cases. The economy will move into growth territory, inflation is likely to steady or fall back a little, supported by better agricultural yields and a more stable rand. Perhaps the third quarter of 2016 will prove to be the bottom of the retail cycle, Takaendesa says. However there are many outside risks and lots of ifs in that statement. Du Plessis also sounded a cautious note. I think the market is too optimistic. We are running on US sentiment and sentiment in general, rather than fundamentals. Look at the banks, they have trended downwards today. If things were genuinely pointing upwards they should move in step with the retailers. This suggests something else is up the market is jumpy and no one wants to be left behind. 