Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Executive confusionPresident Donald Trump&#8217;s executive order setting new barriers for US entry to people from seven mostly Islamic countries led to confusion and condemnation over the weekend. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly has clarified that green card holders from those countries would not be stopped from returning to the US. Despite widespread protests against the moves, market reaction has been muted, with the dollar little changed by 5:15am ET. German inflation, French primaryInflation in three German states came in above 2% this morning. National inflation statistics due at 8:00am ET are expected to show headline CPI at 2%. In France, where Benoit Hamon won the Socialist primary over the weekend, front-runner Francois Fillon has been campaigning while battling a prosecutor&#8217;s graft probe. Polls over the weekend show the first round of the election is a three-way fight between Fillon, independent candidate Emmanuel Macron and the far-right Marine Le Pen. The spread between German and French 10-year bonds widened four basis points by 5:20am ET.Opec has investors convincedHedge funds boosted their net-long position on West Texas Intermediate to the highest level in at least a decade in the week ending January 24, according to data released by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission. A barrel of WTI for March delivery was trading largely unchanged at $53.19 as of 5:33am ET, with Friday&#8217;s rig-count data showing the highest number of oil drills operating in the US since November 2015. Markets dropOvernight, in light trading due to the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.4%, while Japan&#8217;s Topix index also dropped 0.4%. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.8% lower as of 5:39am ET with banks and miners leading the losses. S&amp;P 500 futures were down 0.3%. Huge data weekGet ready for an incredibly busy week on the economic front. At 8:30am ET this morning we get personal income and spending data in the US to kick off an important week for the economy. Then, the first Federal Reserve Open Markets Committee meeting of the year begins tomorrow with policy decisions due on Wednesday. Friday brings non-farm payrolls data for January. 2017 Bloomberg