TUMISANG NDLOVU: We continue with the day s top business news here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000. Now we turn our focus to deliberations in Parliament over the FICA Bill, public hearings in this regard began on Wednesday after the presidency raised concerns that the bill doesn t suit constitutional muster. The Banking Association s Cas Coovadia joins us on the line now for this discussion. Interesting developments that we saw in Parliament on Wednesday, talk us through the process. CAS COOVADIA: We were there because the president referred a section of the bill back to Parliament because he received advice that that section is unconstitutional. The intention was that the committee only considers that section and gets input from stakeholders on what their view is on that section. So a number of stakeholders took legal opinion and legal opinion essentially said that the section does bear constitutional muster and that s what we also said and we urge the committee to refer the bill back to the president for signing. Now that was the gist of thing and legally and according to Parliamentary rules the committee should only be looking at that. A whole range of other issues came up, which related to transformation and a view from people like the BBC and the PPF that this bill gives banks unfettered powers and so on, which we said is just not correct. But the committee is having hearings in March on the transformation of the industry and so on, and so we took the view that we will participate in those hearings and that yesterday [Wednesday] would not be a platform to actually discuss that but there was quite a lot of toing and froing on that. TUMISANG NDLOVU: That said, what is the Association s standpoint on the bill itself? CAS COOVADIA: We are saying that it s absolutely clear from the legal counsel opinion, mostly independent legal counsel for Parliament and National Treasury, our legal counsel, &#8230; the legal counsel from the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals, all agree that the section where the president raised concern was just past constitutional muster and so the bill passes constitutional muster because that s the only issue that the president raised and that bill should be sent back. Our view is that the bill should now be sent back to the president for him to sign. If he still refuses to sign then he has the legal right to refer it to the Constitutional Court. But it s urgent that this bill be signed now that all legal opinions say that it does pass constitutional muster and we would urge that it be signed by the president. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Are there any plans from the Banking Association readying for the eventuality if or when the president does not sign this bill, arguing the same issues that he s already highlighted as a concern? CAS COOVADIA: Well, according to legal opinion given on Wednesday he cannot essentially what he would get is the bill back with the committee saying that Parliament has nor considered his concerns and have said that its concerns are invalid. He can t raise those concerns again, he either then has to sign the bill or refer it to the Constitutional Court if he still feels it s unconstitutional. If he does that then obviously we would also plan to give representation at the court. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Having said that, Cas, are you confident it this current process before even talk or the thinking of reaching the Constitutional Court? CAS COOVADIA: It depends on how the president looks at it, from a purely legal and constitutional point of view there shouldn t be any debate around signing the bill, there should be absolutely no debate.&nbsp;Everybody, all the legal counsel, including senior counsel, have said that it bears constitutional muster. So having said that and recognizing that even Parliament s legal advisor advised the committee chair yesterday that the committee is bound to look at only that, only that section that has been referred by the president.&nbsp;So having heard what the legal opinion said yesterday, having heard that the committee is bound to consider only that section then our view is that the committee has no option but to refer it back to the president to say they have considered it, legal opinion says that the section is constitutional. That s the only issue that the president raised, so they ve dealt with the issue he raised, the bill is, therefore, constitutional and should be signed, and that s what they should do. There shouldn t be any delays on this. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Thank you so much for your input. Case Coovadia is the MD of the Banking Association of South Africa, speaking to us here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000 about public hearings into the FICA Bill.&nbsp;TUMISANG NDLOVU: Now we speak to Mzwanele Manyi of the Progressive Professionals Forum about the public hearings into the FICA Bill. What s your view of the process which kicked off on Wednesday in the National Assembly? MZWANELE MANYI: For us as the Progressive Professionals Forum we fully support the objectives of this bill to combat any form of criminality and corruption. In fact, the requirements that South Africa must comply with in terms of the Financial Management Task Force requirements to combat two things, money laundering and terrorism, and we think those two things are acts of criminality. The fundamental issue here is that criminality resides elsewhere other than what the bill wanted to do and our challenge is what the bill seeks to be, the bill seeks to take the policy powers and, in fact, judicial powers and it s doing that in parrot fashion in the private environment like the banks, as it were, whereby you get sick bank officials gathering information, giving it to what you d call accounting institutions, which are banks and banks sitting there, reading these papers, getting this information, combining everything and taking views and before you know it your account is frozen. We are saying that we want to ensure that FICA must actually comply with FMTF (Financial Management Task Force) the countries that are members of FMTF must ensure that their operations first and foremost are constitutional. Secondly, that they integrate these activities into the legislation that is at play. In South Africa, the constitution of South Africa, Section 205, Sub-Section 3, is very clear that the police service are the people who are constitutionally-tasked to prevent, to combat and to investigate criminality. So we are saying that interaction with the police must kick in. Also, South Africa has a law called the National Strategic Intelligence Act, Act Number 39 of 1994 and that act lists institutions that are supposed to be collecting information on crime. Now, the fit [people] are not in that list but there can be some arrangement that is made that if they are properly vetted and I think we cannot compromise on that. There must be proper vetting of people who have got access into all kinds of information about the citizens of this country.&nbsp;They must be vetted even by security services, so that we know that we are not dealing with other criminals hiding behind those inspectors, as it were. So they must be properly vetted, that is a very sensitive and serious issue. Information which they get, if they think this information is criminal in some shape or form, instead of then taking this information to what is called accounting institutions, which are banks, we say no that is incorrect, they must take that information to the security agency, whether it s the Hawks or the police so that the proper action can be taken because it is now criminality. If somebody is involved in money laundering that person belongs in jail. TUMISANG NDLOVU: So you are sticking to the point that this matter should be dealt with as a criminal matter and that the correct authority for it is maybe the SAPS or law enforcement agencies. That said, Mr Manyi, what happens if the committee doesn t find in your favour, there have been counter arguments that this is not exactly what the bill is trying to do and it is quite a good piece of document. What do you say to those arguments that have been put in front of the committee and what will happen if the committee actually agrees with that stance and opposes yours? MZWANELE MANYI: No, actually I think there was a concession by Senior Counsel Gauntlett, where he said perhaps the formulation of the role of inspectors can be formulated differently to be clear about where their powers start and stop. I think that would be very useful because right now they ve got almost powers like the Hawks or some of these other agencies. So if these powers are circumscribed and they are limited to maybe information gathering or what have you, and once they have got that information it s then supplied to the security agencies, as it were, then we have no problem. But let me put it very clearly but I m hoping they will make all the changes because that will substantially deal with a lot of things that we are worried about because what we don t want is a situation where civilians just think they can come and go into people s houses and the problem with that is that if you have unvetted people they are getting access to financial information, getting access to your house and everything, before you know it you ll have your house bugged all over, we don t want to be bugged and so on. So people who have got access to our confidential information must be themselves fit and proper and for them to be fit and proper they must be vetted. Lastly, having got that information, for action to be taken a fair process must be seen to be done. So if they take this information to SAPS or the Hawks to say something is wrong and get the court to deal with the banks to say, bank, do this or order something. But the issue is there has to be some kind of objective process and what is happening now is there is no objective process happening now. In fact, banks have begun to implement additional illegals and this is our problem and this is why they are rushing like this, they are trying to sign this in order to cover up implementing the law which is not promulgated. This is our problem. TUMISANG NDLOVU: Thank you so much for your time. Mzwanele Manyi of the Progressive Professionals Forum here on MoneyTalk with Moneyweb on Radio 2000, talking about public hearings into the FICA Bill.