At the end of their term in office, premiers, presidents and the like will present facts and figures to try and show how successful they have been. While these disclosures are normally very selective, they are dominated by economic indicators.What I will try and demonstrate in this article is that the Trump presidency is virtually doomed to be poorly evaluated on many of these factors simply because of the current conditions of the US economy. Simplistically put, the USA, in relation to the rest of the world and its recent history, is in a robust condition and is unlikely to get much better. It could in fact get worse, on a relative basis, because it just can t get much better!Firstly let s try and get an idea of what President Trump wants to get done:Estimates are that Trump will increase federal debt by over $5 trillion. Now these plans will have a positive spinoff for the economy, but it is not certain that tax revenues will increase sufficiently to repay these massive fiscal outflows, especially in the first few years.Unemployment Unemployment in the USA is as low as what it gets, at around 4.7%. The USA is in fact fully employed. It does not get much lower. There is not a shortage of jobs; there is a shortage of people willing to fill those jobs. They need more people, not more jobs. So if President Trump does indeed, via his policies, put millions to work , he is going to have to go on a global recruitment drive to find these people.In four years time the unemployment rate is very unlikely to get any better, because it is already so low. Trump probably will not be able to claim this.InflationInflation had already started to rise in the USA long before the Trump victory, mainly because of underlying pressures related to stronger growth. The current level of 2% is well above the 0% in 2015. If President Trump is able to implement his plans, it is virtually certain that this will lead to more inflation. Wages will go up, commodity prices will remain stable or increase, there will be a material boost in demand etc it is highly unlikely that inflation will be lower in four years time.Short-term interest rates Post the Global Financial Crisis, short-term interest rates were at unprecedented low levels for a sustained period. They have recently started to rise, on the back of the return of some sort of economic stability. This rise has nothing to do with the Trump presidency. However, again if he is able to implement his plans, the Trump presidency will only increase the extent of short-term interest rate increases.It is therefore most likely that short-term interest rates will be higher in four year time, even if Trump was not president.Long-term interest ratesNow depending on what time series you look at (and how much faith you put on really long-term numbers), until recently, the long bond rate in the USA was either at 40, 100 or 2000 year lows, having touched 1.5% in mid-2016. In the last six months there has been a full-blown bear market in USA (and other) bonds, with the yield rising to 2.5%. Now this level, to a South African, seems fantastic, but the effect is the same as if our long bond yield jumped from 9% to 15%. This rise certainly has little to do with Trump. Yields were just unsustainably low in a reasonable economic growth environment. You can make an argument that this level is the new normal , and that it is unlikely to rise much further, but given the planned massive increase in the federal debt levels, I would vote for a higher percentage yield in four years time.USA federal debtOne thing is virtually certain in a Trump presidency: federal debt is likely to go up in the first four years. Who knows, the additional growth that may be stimulated by Trump, could result in additional taxes bringing down the debt, or restricting its growth rate, but I doubt if this will occur quickly.So once again the Trump presidency will most likely be poorly evaluated on this criterion.Relative economic growthThe USA has enjoyed a sustained period of very strong relative economic growth since 2008. This is primarily as a result of inherent economic resilience and a very quick and sustained intervention by the US monetary and fiscal authorities. The US dollar has also been very strong as a result of this.Now this could continue for the next four years, but this has been in place for so long and having almost reached the previous peak of relative economic growth, it is also quite likely that this situation may not look as favourable into the future. Overall the US GDP growth rate could easily be higher in four years time, given the Trump expenditure plans, but you can make a very strong argument that much higher interest rates will negate this stimulus. This also ignores any potential negative effects of an America first philosophy on global trade.USA housing marketThe USA simply had to stabilise their housing market post the Global Financial Crisis. The authorities were successful and now have started to withdraw this stimulus by the phasing out of quantitative easing and rising interest rates etc. The housing market has now fully recovered and in unlikely to show the same growth rates into the future, given the rise in the cost of funding mortgage bonds. So again it is likely that this statistic will not be better in four years timeIn summary It is likely in my opinion that, on the majority of economic criteria normally used, the Trump first term will not measure up well, almost irrespective of his achievements. The USA is currently in a very good (especially relative to other major economies) economic condition. The stimulatory effects of the Global Financial Crisis are starting to come to an end.These negative or base effects factors would be in place irrespective of who won the election. But be assured that if some of these criteria do not reflect a positive picture in four years time, President Trump (and any other sensible politician) will simply keep quiet about them.