JOHANNESBURG January is usually accompanied by various New Year s resolutions.And even though these promises often include a vow to start saving or stick to a budget, January typically also brings its fair share of new expenses in the form of higher school fees, medical aid contributions and insurance payments.Many consumers will likely also see their tax burden increase from March onwards if tax hikes are introduced as expected.Although the economic outlook has improved from a year ago, consumers are expected to remain under pressure for the foreseeable future.So how do you create wealth in such an environment? Particularly if you don t earn huge amounts of money and have to manage your money wisely in order to make ends meet?The late US economist and Nobel Prize winner Paul Samuelson once said that investing should be like watching paint dry or grass grow. If you want excitement, take $800 and go to Las Vegas, he advised.Investing is often not as exciting or rewarding as people hoped it would be particularly in the short term. It is not about making a quick buck but about consistently growing your money over the long run, and sticking to your strategy even during periods when things aren t that rosy.But how do you do this on a middle-income salary? It is possible to do, but may require you to make some difficult (and unpopular) decisions and adjustments. Successful investors are often not the ones with the highest income, but those who manage their money sensibly by adjusting their living standard. Think about it taking on unnecessary credit is essentially a way of artificially enhancing your living standard, while saving and investing is effectively adjusting your living standard downward (as this money is not available for spending).Below are some ideas about how you can adjust your living standard to free up some money every month to invest.Don t buy or rent the most expensive property you can afford Often the assumption is that you should buy the most expensive property your salary would allow. Put differently, apply for the maximum loan the bank would approve. Do you really need that swimming pool, big garden or extra study or is it just a nice-to-have? More importantly perhaps, will it improve your ability to create wealth over time, or will it add to your expenses to such an extent that you won t be compensated when you eventually sell the property? In other words, will you be in a better financial position than someone who settles for a similar, but less expensive property without the trimmings?Is it worth staying in a complex where the levies are hugely expensive, when you can buy a property in a similar estate and pay half the amount? No doubt these sacrifices can be hard to make, but saving just a few hundred (or thousand) rand every month and investing it, can go a long way in creating wealth over time.The same is true for renting. Even if your budget suggests that you can afford paying 30% of your salary towards rent, it doesn t necessarily mean that it is a sensible approach. Do the math each case will be different.A car is not an investment it may not even be an asset South Africans love their cars and it is therefore not uncommon for people to upgrade as soon as the outstanding loan amount is equal to the vehicle s trade-in value. Although many car enthusiasts still place a high premium on vehicle ownership (the percentage of people who rent a car or use vehicle sharing options are still small compared to those who buy) upgrading as soon as the trade-in can cover the outstanding loan, effectively means you never own the car in any case.I truly believe that a lot of South Africans would be able to improve their financial situation in the long run if they rethink their approach to buying a car. While there has undoubtedly been a buying down trend in the local automotive industry since the financial crisis with many people opting for smaller, fuel efficient vehicles, there is still a significant demand for flashy, luxury vehicles and one has to ask what the impact of this is on the financial situation of many South Africans in the long run.Keeping up with the Joneses when it comes to buying a vehicle may be one of the easiest ways of destroying wealth over time.Ditch the expensive cell phone contractIf is often possible to save a few hundred bucks every month by not getting the latest cell phone or opting for a contract suited to your specific needs. The difference should be invested every month.Ask yourself whether you really need and use the more expensive technology and if it makes financial sense.Now if only you could park your investment portfolio in the undercover parking at work!