RYK VAN NIEKERK: We are talking markets again and my guest today is Dr Adrian Saville, chief strategist at Citadel. Adrian, welcome to the show.I want to start with Donald Trump: I don t know if you saw his conference earlier this week but, boy, I think the whole world is in for a tough four years and, pardon the pun, he seems to be a loose cannon in the White House. What is your expectation of him and how it would impact the markets? ADRIAN SAVILLE: Ja, I love that observation. Markets don t agree with you, because if you look at the way markets have responded &#8211; equity markets is my specific reference &#8211; from the moment Trump was announced the winner there was shock and the S&amp;P 500 priced in a 5% fall and before that shock could actually materialise in market prices, the futures started to recover and the S&amp;P finished the first day under Trump as president-elect in positive territory. That was the beginning of November and since then, US equities in particular, have just gone stronger and stronger.If equities are pricing earnings capability, then they are saying the US economy is in reasonable shape and that we have to make the observation that equity markets are not short-sighted &#8211; they are looking further than the immediate future. So they are anticipating a reasonable set of earnings results that company performance will be okay under Trump.The part of the market that has responded with the greatest surprise or shock is bonds and that s probably easy to explain with the advantage of hindsight that Trump proposes fairly aggressive fiscal policy. We don t know where he s going to get the money from; he s got to borrow it and that will be inflationary. It will tighten the screws on the borrowing part of capital markets and so short- and long US interest rates have started to respond in anticipation. But, four years under Trump, well, I think we are in for an interesting ride. RYK VAN NIEKERK: There could be surprises at any given moment. ADRIAN SAVILLE: At any moment. You made the noted observation about the loose cannon and I think he s exactly that. If you go back to what he said in his acceptance speech, his victory speech, he went from being this bullterrier days before. Moments before he s announced president-elect and suddenly you have this statesman-like stature, absolutely extraordinary. I don t believe the statesman-like stature, I don t believe the bullterrier either &#8211; the bullterrier was the election speak and statesman-like stature is flippant and fleeting. He keeps showing his true hand and his true hand doesn t fill me with glee and joy. RYK VAN NIEKERK: His election does bring uncertainty, as we ve just discussed, but we have knowables in the world and unknowables in the world, and currently many people focus on the unknowables &#8211; the things we don t know. What are the knowables? What do we know will happen in 2017 in the various areas around the world? ADRIAN SAVILLE: The knowables are that the big economies will continue to matter the most: so the performance of the US, Europe, Japan and, at the fringe, the real engine in economic growth in recent times has been China. China manufactures their growth numbers, so the easier place to go to for true Chinese performance is to look at things like rail freight, bank lending, property prices are a reasonable barometer and, of course, commodity prices. So those heavyweight economies are known to have material impact.The question we put over them is what will performance look like? I think the US will be okay, Europe will be anaemic, Japan will go nowhere again for the 25th year in a row, or something like that, and China is the swing factor. I would say of those big knowns the real one to watch is China and then how the US performs under Trump. Although Japan are the anaemic elements, they are actually more knowable and we can put greater certainty in our guesstimate that they will spend the year in listless direction. The other known is that there is some important policy actions coming up &#8211; Europe, Brexit and how that materialises is an important one. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Does that affect your investment decisions? ADRIAN SAVILLE: It has to, but I would go back to your earlier point which was about the unknowns, because the things that matter most are the unknowns that jump out of the cupboard at four o clock on a Tuesday afternoon and they come in the form of things that are almost impossible to imagine. If you think of the big blow-ups, the huge dramas of recent times, Brexit was entirely contrary to expectations, Trump was contrary to expectations &#8211; it was possible but overwhelmingly unanticipated. Further in the distance would be things like Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns, those collapses, they were guessable but they weren t expected.So whilst you can position your portfolio for things that you might anticipate the unknowability of a Brexit decision and that s exactly how we position portfolios, we position it for uncertainty. But the one that you have to position for to an even fuller extent is this unknowability and how will your portfolio perform in an environment, in a future, that is essentially unknowable.&nbsp;Citadel asset allocation </strong>RYK VAN NIEKERK: Currently your portfolios, what is your asset allocation? Where are you overweight or underweight? ADRIAN SAVILLE: So the portfolios that I look after cover a fairly wide spectrum and they range all the way from asset allocation to, as you know, specific stock-picking in my SuperDogs portfolio. For instance, in the asset allocation mandates for South African investors it remains the case that if you lived on Mars and you looked at the world and you said where should I allocate assets, you would have no more than about 1% of your total? Anything more than 1% allocated to South Africa would be an overweight South Africa position. That shouldn t be interpreted in any way as an anti-South Africa stance, but if you are allocating assets according to global asset allocation, the bulk of your assets should be offshore.My asset allocation mandates stand that way inside some fairly specific or firm views that we have. The one is and we ve held for some time [that] bonds are extremely expensive and should be avoided. That s been a particularly good call for the last quarter of last year, where US bonds in particular repriced and lost a fair chunk of money. But overwhelmingly global bonds look expensive, so we stay away from those.Global equities: you have to be careful about where you go because some markets do look fairly richly priced; others look attractive but may well be value traps. The fairly richly priced is the United States, the attractive but perhaps value-trapped Japan is a case in point. In South African assets, equities, after doing nothing for the last 12 months, are starting to look interesting again and South African government bonds, I would venture, are a very interesting place to go. A niche asset class that remains extremely attractive are South African preference shares. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Can you expand on that, why ? ADRIAN SAVILLE: The preference shares is interesting: it s an illiquid asset class, so I think you are being offered an illiquidity premium. It s not entirely unknown and unresearched but it s not well followed. Many investment conversations start with equities, bonds and property, and stop there. They don t go to the, if I could call it, more esoteric or peripheral asset classes. There s a specific concern around bond preference shares in South Africa and that is government regulation requires banks, under Basel, to treat preference shares no longer as base capital and that means preference shares no longer hold the weight and stature that they do, many of the banks are slowly redeeming those preference shares and cancelling them. So that market is becoming even thinner and less liquid. While all of that is going on, you are being offered yields in double digits with bank balance sheets behind them and I think that that s a really interesting proposition. (for more on preference shares, read here: http://view.ceros.com/moneyweb/the-investor-december-2016/p/7) RYK VAN NIEKERK: And a bit more conservative. ADRIAN SAVILLE: And it s conservative. You do have the volatility of preference shares, so they have an equity-like component but if your mandate is forever, if you ve got a very long investment horizon, I think preference shares make for a very interesting proposal. RYK VAN NIEKERK: I just want to go back to a point you ve made about being overweight in South African equities, in many ways regulations force local asset managers to invest more in South Africa and limit your potential to invest offshore. Are you concerned about this because would you not rather invest in LVM than in Richemont, for example, or have the option to invest in those two very similar stocks but due to regulations you are in many ways forced to invest in Richemont? ADRIAN SAVILLE: I love your reference to option because that s exactly what the greater global universe affords, and that s optionality. That if you want to invest in, for instance, a motor manufacturer, your options in South Africa are none, and when you want to invest in a luxury brand retailer you ve got Richemont as a prospect but that s more or less where it starts and stops. So you are afforded a far greater choice and that optionality allows you to build more effective portfolios. But to rewind perhaps a step, so that s a long way of saying yes, offshore gives you optionality, you can build more interesting, more effective portfolios but to rewind, I made an earlier argument and said that if you lived on Mars and looked at earth you should have 99% of your capital offshore, what that point overlooks or doesn t cater for is you first have to put into the equation your expenditure basket and if your expenditure basket is rand then you need to make sure that your asset base first services that rand expenditure basket or is built to look after that ultimate rand expenditure basket . So if you re 40 you want to build your pension for a rand retirement and if you re 75 you want to be holding a portfolio that services rand retirement. But anything over and above that is where the 99% story belongs, what we could call for the sake of a term, quadrant four assets or surplus assets. The reason why I make the point that it needs to be surplus is if you have a portfolio that generates an annual income of R250 000 to look after your retirement and that R250 000 is generated in US dollars, and then the rand does something spectacular, it moves from R14/$, where it is today, to R7/$, your retirement income has just halved. So the certainty around your retirement income is compromised the moment you have the volatility of currency in it. So when it comes to thinking about building asset baskets I would venture that that luxury, the importance of overseas assets, has far less impact and import when it comes to thinking about expenditure matching, as opposed to surplus asset. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Let s talk about the local market, one of the key trends of last year was the significant outflow from foreign investors, I don t know what the number is but it was north of R50 billion that was moved from the JSE to other asset classes, mostly international destinations. Do you think that will continue and what could the impact be if that trend continues? ADRIAN SAVILLE: The number that I saw was even bigger than yours, I think it s in excess of R100 billion in equity that went out. There was a more modest inflow into South African government bonds. That R100 billion in equity outflow represents a large part of South Africa s foreign exchange reserves, so we are vulnerable to that and it s interesting how well the rand did, notwithstanding that huge outflow. There were some specific factors that explained the big equity outflow, Steinhoff, their offshore listing, and to a much greater extent SABMiller. That explains it. So those are to some extent one-off effects and if they are one-off effects I would venture that South Africa will see a much smaller outflow, if there is one, with those removed from the equation. South African government bonds, I think, continue to offer an interesting avenue for yield seekers and I would guess that as things stand more money comes for the South African bond market, that equities have repriced and look reasonably attractive in South Africa and that we don t have those big one-off events taking place, the rand might benefit from a reflux and that some of that capital that left in equities may well return. But that s a hard number to figure out. RYK VAN NIEKERK: What percentage of the foreign ownership does that R100 billion represent? ADRIAN SAVILLE: It s modest, the total amount of capital behind the South African market wall is multiples of that and if that money were to change its mind and leave in an afternoon, the rand would go to hell in a handbasket, it really would be a spectacular hot money event. So it s important then, to go back to an earlier point that you were making about market confidence and the knowns, and the stability and stature of the South African environment, it s really important that we recognise the vulnerability and the fragility of the South Africa capital market to those foreign capital flows. The short answer is that if that money changed its mind you would see a spectacular rand selloff. RYK VAN NIEKERK: How much of that is influenced by internal political uncertainty? We are going to have a very interesting political year and last year we started off under this massive uncertainty, where after Nhlanhla Nene was fired, but in the end the currency or the rand was one of the best performing currencies in the world, which was totally unexpected. I don t think anyone expected in January last year that we would end the year sub R14/$. How does that impact decisions and especially for foreigners, does it have such a big impact as we here in South Africa believe it does? ADRIAN SAVILLE: When an economist gets a forecast right they tell you and so I will tell you that at the beginning of last year when the rand was round about exactly this day last year the rand was at about R18/$, I wrote a note to our clients that we thought that R13.50 was fair value and it s great that it made its way back there because it makes us wealthier globally. But I think it also helps reinforce the point that you want to build portfolios that can cater for all terrain and that as much as I proposed the rand could go to R13.50, it was possible that it went to R20/$ or even higher. Your earlier point though was how much does internal factors influence the rand and the short answer is surprisingly little. There s lovely work that s been done by the IMF, which tries to break up the factors that influence the rand into internal and external components and their weighting suggests about one-third of the rand s performance is explained my South African-specific factors. Of course when it comes to commentary on the rand we spend about 100% of our time talking about domestic factors but I think it s worth noting that two-thirds of rand behaviour, based on this evidence, and it s robust evidence, actually is influenced from outside the country and what s going on outside the country are things such as commodity prices, risk on, risk off, activity in the Fed, Brexit decisions and so on. It s these external effects that have a far greater influence on the rand than domestic effects. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Just lastly, looking at the local market, where do you see value and what sectors are you staying away from? ADRIAN SAVILLE: I think the South African economy is in better shape at the start of this year than it was at the start of last year, there s been some pricing in of that but my suspicion for 2017 is that economic growth will be better than 2016, inflation will be lower, we ve seen the top of the interest rate cycle and, all else given, the rand should be relatively stable and that starts to play then into domestic-facing elements such as the construction firms, the engineering firms, manufacturing or quasi-manufacturing, the retailers, banks, insurers. So I m going to make an argument not so much against Richemont and the offshore exposure, and the resource companies have had a very, very good 2016, I m not sure that they can repeat that in 2017. I would rather allocate capital to things that I think have been overlooked, ignored, a little bit unloved. Amongst the retailers you ve got the likes of Woolworths looking really interesting. Amongst the construction and engineering businesses a company like Group Five with its offshore concessions business looks particularly interesting. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Thank you, Adrian. That was Adrian Saville, he is the chief strategist at Citadel.