Sasol provided a trading update on Thursday for the six months ending December 2016 that caught the market a little bit off guard. By the close of trading, the share price was 3% lower at R409 per share.The company indicated that it expected headline earnings per share (Heps) for the six-month period to be between 34% and 44% lower (equivalent to R8.26 to R10.68 per share) than the previous corresponding period, in which the company delivered Heps of R24.28.Sasol attributed this primarily to three factors.The rand/US dollar exchange rate, while 3% weaker during the period, was stronger at period end. This means Sasol will incur translation losses amounting to approximately R1.46 per share.The impact of industrial action at the Secunda mining operation meant the company had to purchase almost double the prior period s coal tonnes (4.4 million versus 2.4 million) to feed the Secunda Synfuel operations. This additional net cost of the labour action added worked out to approximately R1.06 per share.The final reason forwarded was the base effects of the prior period, when the company wrote back the Escravos GTL provision which equated to R3.77 per share.The three reasons forwarded cumulatively account for R6.29 per share, but there were elements that worked in Sasol s favour that should have negated these negative influences.For one, the rand price of Brent oil a quick and easy way of gauging the direction of revenue was 5.6% higher on average this period than the prior period. The business is also still in the process of rationalising costs, with potentially higher revenue, investors would have been expecting some margin improvement.Sasol confirmed as much in its statement: We have seen a steady and continued recovery in global oil and product prices during the period under review. Normalised cash fixed costs continued to trend well within inflation for the period under review. Barring the exceptions mentioned above, the company delivered a solid operational performance with higher sales at base and performance chemicals.But liquid fuel sales volumes were 2% lower as a result of the planned downtime at Natref and due to a change in the way the company allocated sales volumes at other divisions. While the results may still change materially, let s hope there are no nasty surprises in June. Looking for a financial education solution for your staff? First name* Last name* Contact Number* Email* Company nameSize of workforceNameThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.