JOHANNESBURG Grindrod Asset Management, which officially began trading as Bridge Fund Managers on Tuesday, aims to grow its assets under management to between R30 billion and R35 billion by 2020.According to its CEO, Mark Logan, the target is to at least double its assets within the three-year period.The firm, whose assets under management grew 12% to R14.8 billion last year, has set the target after welcoming investment holding company Infinitus as a new shareholder. Infinitus invests in high-growth businesses in the consumer, industrial and financial services sectors. Absolute Pets, Vital and TrenStar are some of the other investments in its portfolio.The change in shareholding follows after JSE-listed freight logistics and shipping group Grindrod Limited, through its subsidiary Grindrod Financial Services (GFS) swapped its entire stake in Grindrod Asset Management for Infinitus shares. The transaction will see GFS s stake in Infinitus grow from 35% to 49%.In terms of the new structure, Infinitus will become the majority shareholder in Bridge Fund Managers with a 76% stake. The management and staff of the asset manager will retain the remaining 24%. Grindrod Ltd owns 95% of GFS, and will therefore maintain a significant indirect stake in Bridge Fund Managers. Grindrod is not exiting, but changing the way it holds its interest in the business, MD of GFS, David Polkinghorne, says.Logan says the Grindrod business is synonymous with shipping and logistics and there was a realisation that an asset management business couldn t be a core focus of the business in the long run. They were aware that for our asset management business to grow we needed to have our own standalone brand. The transaction allows the firm to rebrand to an appropriate financial services brand and to distance itself somewhat from the shipping and logistics business, he says. It also introduces another shareholder into the business and the shareholder, which is Infinitus, is well-networked. It has wide connections. It will allow us to expand and grow the business on the retail side and on the institutional side. I think Grindrod had reached the stage where they thought they have been very good shareholders but they cannot help us grow the business further. Logan says the business is poised to grow substantially on the retail side through its unit trust business, which offers nine local and three offshore funds. There are also opportunities to grow the private client business. We are very strong on the wealth side in Durban, but less so in Cape Town and Johannesburg and through the Infinitus network, we feel that we ll have access to high-net-worth individuals in the Cape and Gauteng region, which we don t have access to at the moment. While the new ownership structure or name change won t have an impact on its existing client base or investment philosophy, it believes the change allows the business to communicate its approach more clearly. A bridge connects places, people and ideas, it provides a secure route to a destination and is usually custom-designed, Logan says. So what we are saying is everybody s financial plan needs to be custom-designed. You can t just have one-size-fits-all. Clients investment plans also require attention on an on-going basis. The name change reflects its investment approach and philosophy more appropriately, Logan says.The firm builds income-efficient portfolios by focusing on high and growing income streams and inflation-beating capital returns.Logan concedes that it has been difficult to convince financial advisers and investors of the merits of the strategy in an environment where the focus often tends to be outperformance relative to peers or a benchmark.He says the strategy is getting significant traction in the US as an increasing number of people realise the importance of dividends and income.Grindrod Ltd s share price closed 0.2% higher at R13.71.