Hong Kong stocks advanced to a one-month high buoyed by mainland buying via an exchange link as investors speculated a recent selloff was overdone.The Hang Seng Index rose 0.5 percent to 22,678.25 as of 1:02 p.m. local time. Belle International Holdings Ltd. and China Resources Power Holdings Co. were the biggest gainers. Intime Retail (Group) Co. surged 35 percent, the most since its 2007 debut, after Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Intime s founder offered to privatize the retailer. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. advanced 5.2 percent after saying same-store sales in China rose 4 percent last quarter. The Shanghai Composite Index was little changed.Hong Kong s benchmark equity gauge has advanced 3.1 percent this year after slumping 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter. Mainland investors bought a net 25 billion yuan ($3.6 billion) of Hong Kong stocks through the Shanghai link since Dec. 21 through Monday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This compares with just 1.2 billion yuan during the previous 11 sessions. China s factory prices rose at the fastest pace in more than five years in December, data released Tuesday showed. There may be some focus turning to stocks that didn t do so well in 2016 and prices are at low levels, said Linus Yip, a strategist at First Shanghai Securities in Hong Kong. China s inflation figures may help market sentiment but what we re seeing is a rebound in the overall market. PetroChina Co., which jumped 6.9% this year through Monday, slid 0.3%. Cnooc Ltd. fell 1.1% and Kunlun Energy Co. retreated 0.7%. Oil futures tumbled 3.8% on Monday in New York and rebounded 0.2% on Tuesday. China shopping malls jumped. Maoye International Holdings Ltd. rallied as much as 12% after announcing plan to sell 11.3% of Maoye Communication &amp; Network Co. for 1.4 billion yuan ($202 million).Golden Eagle Retail Group Ltd. rose 1.6%, Parkson Retail Group Ltd. advanced 3.6%, New World Department Store China Ltd. gained 2.9%. Miricor Enterprises Holdings Ltd. surged as much as 525% in its Hong Kong trading debut. China s IPO share debuts all rose by the daily limit: Anhui Province Natural Gas Development Co. and Ningbo Tianlong Electronics Co. surged by the 44% limit in Shanghai, while Zhejiang Huatong Meat Products Co. and Guangdong Wanlima Industry Co. jumped by the limit in Shenzhen. 2017 Bloomberg L.P