Resource shares have been the stellar performers since the start of 2016. For example, Anglo American has outperformed the All Share Index by 307% and Kumba Iron Ore by 390%. However let s not forget that they underperformed dramatically against the All Share Index in the prior three years: Anglo by 88% and Kumba by 95%. Roughly speaking, in relation to the All Share Index, if you held the shares in 2012, you have only so far regained about 1/3 of the value that you lost.From 2012 to 2015, the name of the game was rand hedge shares, with the rand collapsing from R6.6/$ to R16.5/$. The market was so totally convinced that resource shares were dead and that rand hedge shares were the only way to go. You heard plenty of sayings like I see no reason whatsoever to buy resource shares and things just can t get any worse for resource shares .Resource shares were the darlings from 1999 to 2008. For example, believe it or not, Anglo American Platinum was the Naspers during this time, rising from R70 to R1400, about 2100%! China and the commodity super cycle would just carry on forever. Life could not get any better. Remember the commodity cycle is called a cycle because it is a cycle! Very similar characteristics show themselves every time. Whenever excess demand growth is forecast to increase forever, mining companies massively increase production. They brag about what deals they have done, how much money they are spending. They are under intense pressure to spend vast amounts! Market analysts salivate about how cheap the mining companies look on a one-year forward basis, as excessive earnings forecasts kick in. The additional production takes time to come on stream, so prices just keep on rising and rising until this happens. This additional production is also normally more expensive to produce as it is only viable at the higher prices.What normally happens is that, as the new production starts to materialise, demand growth cools off or there is a crisis, and demand collapses. Commodity prices are then totally and utterly destroyed, falling to a level well below the average cost of production. Iron ore rose from $18/ton to $180/ton in 1999 to 2008, and then fell to $40/ton in 2015. Now despite the collapsing prices, mining companies continue to produce! They have to as they have just spent these vast amounts of money and done mega deals. They can t just close these down after spending so much!Sanity and market forces (or excessive pain) eventually prevail. You cannot continue to produce at a loss forever. Investors, companies and management etc are burnt/scarred by this experience. The stronger companies survive and the weaker ones, with the higher production costs, are forced out. Production eventually falls to match demand and sometimes falls to a level where there is actually a shortfall. Companies now start to brag about how little cash they are spending, how they are shoring up their balance sheet etc. Prices start to recover to a level where production become profitable again.What normally happens now is that demand picks up and there is insufficient supply and the cycle starts again.Last year was the year where production cuts resulted in demand and supply being +- in balance and we got a resultant recovery in prices, to a level where resource companies started to make some money again. Mining shares recovered massively and the market eventually started to wake up and have a look at them. This year you are now starting to see material earnings upgrades for mining companies and everyone is talking about them and recommending them. The darlings from the prior years are now the dogs! Companies that you could not get enough of prior to 2016, fall up to 50%. Even the biggest dog of them all, the rand, stages a recovery. The market and investors are in shock. How can this happen?Are we in a new cycle? This time around it is different is the most dangerous phrase in investments. But this time around it could be (a little) different! To get a true commodity up cycle, you need a surge in demand. You need another China. While global economic prospects are not bad, they also do not indicate a massive demand surge for commodities. Everyone is talking about the Trump expenditure plans, but even if these do materialise, they are not another China. In other words, this recovery in commodity prices is as a result of a supply rebalancing and not as a result of a demand surge. As such it is not the re-ignition of the commodity super cycle growth rates. China (the super cycle engine) is still with us and growing, but not nearly at the same rate. Oil is not going back to &lt;$20 (pre-super cycle) but equally a return to $150 is unlikely.Commodity prices could stay somewhere around the current levels. They are however unlikely to surge back to the heady highs we got in 2008. There is simply not a demand surge to justify this. Mining companies will apply some degree of discipline with production. They have (again) learnt this in the school of hard knocks. But by and large what we are seeing here is a recovery from an unsustainably low price level, to a level where at least the surviving companies start to make some money. Should there be a true demand surge, then we will definitely be back to the races and a full-blown commodity up cycle!I think that commodity prices have more or less had the necessary rise. They have returned to roughly a post China average, about half way up the price range for the last 15 years. They could obviously go higher in the shorter term, but probably not sustainably so.What about the mining shares? It is my view, based on my own subjective valuation criteria, that the general mining shares have had the majority of their price recovery, based on the 2017 demand and supply/price dynamics. I think that they will go higher, as the market looks at valuations based on the current ruling spot commodity prices, and earnings start to be upgraded.A final word of caution: Resource shares may rise to a valuation level that is not aligned with the actual underlying commodity dynamics. This is not a resumption of the super cycle s growth rates. It is simply a return to more normal commodity price levels from the unsustainable low levels of a year ago.Wayne McCurrie is a senior portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments&nbsp;