JOHANNESBURG When English portfolio manager Jeremy Hosking addressed a South African audience a few years ago, he faced somewhat of a dilemma.He had set up a new investment firm and realised that while he was trying to convince investors to invest in his vastly diversified equity portfolio, the majority of his competitors managed highly concentrated portfolios with between 26 and 100 shares. I don t know how many of you have a background in marketing I find myself competing with this idea of a concentrated portfolio of shares with high conviction and if any of you have any ideas how to market a portfolio of 358 shares with moderate conviction, I would very much appreciate hearing from you afterwards, he quipped dryly.His comments illustrate an interesting dilemma faced by investment firms it can be challenging to convince investors to buy into an idea when the prevailing market sentiment or wisdom isn t supportive.At the same time, there is a very real risk that launching a new fund at a time when there is a significant demand for such a product may be the wrong strategy (for the investor).To illustrate, let s consider two recent examples. When former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene was fired in December 2015, investors were very concerned about the future of South Africa. In the wake of the shock, many investors took money offshore at a time when the rand was trading at around R16 to the dollar. Some alarmists warned that the rand could fall much further. Now aren t these the perfect circumstances to launch an offshore fund? No marketing budget needed!The problem was that the rand had already weakened substantially by the end of 2015. According to Bloomberg, the currency lost 45% of its value against the greenback in the three years through 2015, before clawing back 13% in 2016.I m not trying to argue that investors shouldn t invest offshore. Of course they should! It is important for diversification purposes and provides exposure to shares and sectors that are not locally available. But be careful if the investment is informed by the prevailing narrative at a time when fear is feverishly high. There is a very real risk of buying high the exact opposite of what investors should be trying to do. (If the decision to move money offshore is solely informed by rand weakness, alarm bells should go off.) To add insult to injury, chances are that loss aversion will set in if the fund performs poorly in the period immediately after investing and that investors may be tempted to get out again, thereby selling low.Another example. South African money market funds lured R49 billion of net flows in 2008 while equity markets were tanking. (Net flows to equity funds were R7 billion.) As a result, many investors missed out on the first phase of the turnaround in equity markets afterwards. It was a great time to launch a money market fund if your aim was to attract flows, but not what was in the best interest of the investor.But how do you entice investors to keep their hard-earned cash in an equity fund when markets have just lost 40%? It is not the type of story that sells The launch of Stable Funds was perhaps a good way to meet investors half way it offered the opportunity of some exposure to capital growth, without the volatility associated with an investment in a pure equity fund.Of course, hindsight is a perfect science. We now know what happened in 2008 and in 2016. In 2007 and 2015 we didn t know what the future would hold.Which is why it is so important to have a diversified portfolio, stick to the strategy and invest for the long term. When the chips are down, all the good intentions are soon forgotten.US economist Larry Summers once said most investors want to do today what they should have done yesterday.That makes investors susceptible to making investment decisions that may not be in their long-term interests. Best to keep that in mind when currencies start going haywire and markets tank.The great marketing story is not necessarily the great investment story. What complicates the matter though, is that the bad marketing story does not guarantee a good outcome either.