This article was first published on TechCentral here, and republished with permission. South African start-up WumDrop has launched a new service, initially exclusively in partnership with The Foschini Group, that will deliver online orders to you, wherever you happen to find yourself.The new service, called Deliver 2 Me, is meant to get around the problem of having to stay in one location often for an entire day when expecting a delivery. You can t leave, and you can t call or track your delivery guy to find out where he is, the company said. When it comes down to it, every other delivery service is delivering to addresses on a map, not to people. Instead of delivering to an address, Deliver 2 Me promises to deliver to consumers, based on the location of their phone.This, it said, means people can choose the hour they d like their order delivered, and to the location they happen to be, regardless of whether that location has an address.For now, Deliver 2 Me is available only through The Foschini Group s online shopping site TFG eMall.The service will be made available for integration to other retailers through WumDrop s application programming interface.WumDrop founder Simon Hartley described the platform as a significant leap forward in business-to-consumer delivery, particularly in Africa where address data can be highly unreliable . Deliver 2 Me isn t locked into a native mobile app like most geolocation services. Rather, it leverages the increasingly powerful suite of features found in mobile browsers to deliver an accurate delivery location to the driver, and a clean, easy-to-use interface to the end user, said WumDrop chief technology officer Wilson Canda.Here s how it works. When a consumer places an order and wants to use the delivery platform, they choose the Deliver 2 Me option. When their parcel is ready for delivery, they ll receive an SMS with a link to the Deliver 2 Me mobile Web app.They can choose either deliver now or deliver later . Choosing deliver now allows them to drop a pin or type in a specific location, while choosing deliver later allows them to choose another time or day when they d prefer to receive the SMS to kick off the deliver now step.Users can even change their location while a delivery is scheduled. This will lead to an automatic prompt to drop a pin at their new location. The driver will then re-route to the user s new location.WumDrop, which describes itself as a last-mile delivery service for businesses and people , is available in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Pretoria. 2017 NewsCentral Media