In a statement released on Thursday, the Banking Association South Africa (Basa) said it had appeared before Parliament&#8217;s Standing Committee on Finance on January 25. The hearings took place to consider the President&#8217;s referral back to the Committee of a section of the FICA Bill, with concerns that such section is unconstitutional. BASA, on the opinion of legal counsel, affirmed that the relevant section in particular, and the Bill in general, does bear constitutional muster and the Committee should refer the Bill back to the President for signature. Basa refuted concerns raised at the hearings by some stakeholders, that the Bill gives unfettered powers to banks. This is patently not correct if one reads the totality of the Bill. Banks will be subject to the requirements of the Bill and the Bill will regulate their oversight on accounts,&#8221; states the association.It quotes Basa MD Cas Coovadia as saying: We have no power or mandate over the Financial Intelligence Centre, which is a statutory body and this Bill does not give commercial banks carte blanche in the treatment of clients. Any narrative to the contrary is simply incorrect and inaccurate and only serves to create uncertainty at a time our country needs policy certainty. BASA has consistently maintained that combatting public and private sector corruption, money laundering and terrorism financing, is essential to a conducive banking environment that benefits and serves all South Africans. These are also critical issues for the national interest, says Coovadia.Basa says the Bill aims to secure important societal objectives in the national interest, including:Independent legal counsel for NT, Parliament, BASA, CASAC and ABSIP all were of the opinion that any intrusion on the right to privacy to achieve these objectives is permissible under the Constitution, said Basa.It added that the framework created by Section 45B is necessary to achieve the legitimate government purpose of FICA and the FIC Amendment Bill to further combat corruption, which is patently in the national interest. &#8220;Any intrusion imposed by the provisions of Section 45B (1C) are reasonable and justifiable under Section 36 of the Constitution and is thus not unlawful.&#8221;&#8220;Thus Basa has respectfully submitted to Parliament that the President&#8217;s concern that Section 45B (1C) of the FIC Amendment Bill is unconstitutional, is without basis.&#8221; We urge Parliament s Standing Committee on Finance to find that the concern expressed by the President is without basis and to refer the Bill back to the President for its signing into law, as a matter of extreme urgency says Coovadia.