Any investment portfolio should have an ideal mix. This could be between different asset classes, or different fund managers.In the former case, this is your asset allocation. It refers to what percentage of your money you want to invest in different kinds of assets, such as stocks, bonds, cash, or listed property.Usually this is determined by your risk profile and how long you are investing for. The more risk you are willing to take and the longer your horizon, the more money you will allocate to growth assets like equity and listed property.However, many investors in South Africa prefer to leave these asset allocation decisions up to professional fund managers. They invest in balanced funds where the split between different asset classes is handled within the fund.Many investors who take this approach will still, however, divide their money between more than one fund manager. They might also invest in both passive and active funds. They will have decided how much they allocate to each one, and their portfolio mix will therefore be between different funds rather than different asset classes.This shouldn&#8217;t be a decision that is just made once and then forgotten about. Over time, this mix will change because different asset classes and different funds will perform differently and so it will need to be reviewed.Consider an investor who chooses three different managers and shares their money equally between them. At the start of the investment period, their portfolio will look like this:However, what happens if over the next year the funds perform quite differently? Let&#8217;s assume Fund A returns 13%, Fund B 5%, and Fund C -6%. The portfolio would then look like this:What has happened is that the balance in the portfolio has shifted. The holding in Fund A is now worth 20% more than that in Fund C.This raises a question for the investor. If you decided that the optimal mix was to have your portfolio split equally between these three managers, should you get it back in line with that?This is because there is no way to know which asset class, investment style or fund manager is going to perform the best in the coming year. Fund C might have had a poor year, but you must have chosen it for a reason, which is that over the long term you expect it to deliver good performance. As the market shifts, it might even be the best performing fund the next year.That is why you need to consider rebalancing your portfolio. This ensures that you get the most out of diversifying.Let&#8217;s assume, for example, that the following year Fund A returns 3%, Fund B 6%, and Fund C 16%. If you did not rebalance, your overall return would be 7.9%. If, however, you had moved your money around to bring the balance back to the original mix of 33.33% in each fund, your return would have been 8.3%.Not only would you have reduced the risk of being over-exposed to a manager who might underperform, but you would also have ensured that you weren&#8217;t underexposed to a manager who might outperform.Even accepting that this is a very contrived example, it illustrates that diversification is not a once-off event. It needs to be reviewed regularly to make sure that it&#8217;s working optimally.Next week: What to think about when rebalancing your portfolio.