After a five year break, Allan Gray reclaimed the title of South African Management Company of the Year at this year&#8217;s Raging Bull Awards. The award is given to the asset manager that delivers the best overall risk-adjusted performance across all of its funds.Allan Gray last won the award in 2011, having won it consecutively since 2008. However, it had slipped to fifth by 2014 and last year it took third place. We were very flattered to win this award, which for us is testimony to our focus on creating long-term wealth for our clients, said Jeanette Marais, director of distribution and client service at Allan Gray. We are extremely grateful for advisers and investors continued trust and confidence. PSG Asset Management was named as the second best South African Management company, while last year&#8217;s winner, Nedgroup Investments was third. For the second consecutive year, Nedgroup Investments took the Raging Bull award for Offshore Management Company of the Year. This accolade is a real endorsement of our &#8216;best of breed&#8217; philosophy where we identify and partner with exceptional independent managers who we believe have a sustainable edge, Nedgroup Investments said in a statement.To commemorate the 21st edition of the awads, the Raging Bulls also included two special awards for top performance over 21 years. The first went to the fund delivering the best outright performance in the South African equity general category over this period, while the second went to the South Africa multi asset equity fund that had produced the best risk-adjusted performance.Both awards were claimed by Investec Asset Management. The Investec Equity Fund won in the equity general category, and the Investec Managed Fund won for the best multi-asset fund.Investec also took the Raging Bull for the best South African equity fund, measured on outright performance over three years. That award went to the resurgent Investec Value Fund, which has shown a remarkable recovery recently after a number of years of under-performance.Another notable award was the Raging Bull for the best South African-domiciled Global Equity General Fund, which went to the Old Mutual Global Equity Fund for an incredible fifth consecutive year.The Prescient Income Provider Fund was also a repeat winner. For the second year in a row, the fund took the Raging Bull for the best performing South African Interest Bearing Fund over three years. The award for the best South African multi-asset equity fund on a risk-adjusted basis over three years went to the NFB Ci Cautious Fund of Funds, while the Centaur BCI Flexible Fund was named as the top multi-asset flexible fund on a risk-adjusted basis.For the full list of Raging Bulls please click here.