For the last five years or so, the economy has looked tired and sluggish, beset by chronic and rising unemployment while it strains to spread social grants wider. Concrete policies with solutions must replace vacuous rhetoric.One of the spinoffs of being a politician is that you can say things that mean absolutely nothing and get away with it. Take President Zuma s delivery of the ANC January 8 statement for instance: Addressing poverty, inequality and unemployment is our key task. We shall therefore work tirelessly to overcome these three challenges,&#8221; he said.I challenge Zuma on this spin: how are you going about this key task, without any solution on just one of these challenges? What progress can you point us to? Throughout your presidency you ve lacked the how to part when mentioning these challenges. Will you ever come up with a solution-orientated approach to these chronic challenges?The question is whether solutions are long-term &#8211; in other words, beyond the short-term self-serving, self-enriching quick fix. South Africa s economic strength is eroding and a social time bomb is ticking beneath our feet, which is why it is time to put the fiddle away and come up with ways to tackle the three challenges mentioned above with the seriousness that matches the hour.I find vagueness in politics annoying and insulting to the populace. In the future, we need to hold leaders accountable for knowing what the country s problems are and dealing with them appropriately &#8211; not ignoring them, or worse being self-enriching while pretending to address these challenges. In my previous article, I urged business leaders to cease complaining about wages and come up with solutions that will enable their workers to live decently &#8211; not become multimillionaires, but to be able to afford their basic needs and have the dignity to pay for their children s education.A real, credible and pragmatic how-to approach to any of the triple challenges remains elusive. Instead, on Sunday, we saw leaders of the ruling alliance kick off the political year with speeches that were self-praising and marvelling of past glories. The time is now, yet the ANC and its alliance partners show symptoms of a deer caught in the headlights &#8211; unsure and without answers.No surprise there. Zuma s presidency has been characterised by speeches that are without details and workable plans. We are told repeatedly that government is doing everything to tackle unemployment, yet its attempts are hopelessly inadequate and mired by a lack of details.While I might have said a word or two to business leaders about coming on board if we are to move this nation forward, in the same breath, a few words must be said to our naked emperor and the fawning politicians surrounding him.First, you cannot strong-arm the private sector into investing at home when you are busy destroying the economy through politics of patronage a look at most State-owned entities lays bare the reality of how leaders control a terrifying array of resources and influence their distribution often for personal gains. It is during Zuma&#8217;s tenure and the current administration that good governance has gone out of the window, along with the fear of consequences for outright corruption.We ve seen a rise in attacks towards those who call for the return of good governance and clean administration. Yes, under the current president, we ve seen ANC regress and ostracise intellectuals to the point of isolating those who could have otherwise elevated the party. Instead, through patronage and factionalism, the ruling party has elevated its leaders who are hallow into positions of power within government, thus gifting South Africa with men and women who are incapable of solving the country s problems. Second, the fact that ANC leaders are inclined to blame troubles on a grand conspiracy of third force or counter revolutionary agents . The truth is they ve run out of ideas or don&#8217;t understand what is going on and are diverting attention from the many promises they ve failed to keep as the ruling party.ANC internal processes have not nurtured effective long-term management of its leaders to prepare them for higher office. In failing to groom future leaders, the stalwarts have left their beloved movement open to hijack by men and women who know only one thing &#8211; politics of the stomach . In so doing, they burden this young democracy with leaders who can neither lead nor solve even one of the triple challenges.Third, there is a terrifying perception within the ruling party s elite that South Africa is advancing by leaps and bounds. Let us be brutally honest: the advance is more like hopping along on clay feet, becoming ever mired in the mud of corruption, and losing ground, until the clay itself becomes liquid and shapeless. This, as in so much else, explains why talks or statements by the president are always blurred, rhetorical and out of touch. Those who have his ears on policies never engage with a specific solution for any of the national challenges. So as long as they have a job, they ll play pat-a-cake with muddy hands, and pretend it is alright. They might think that paying for expensive spa mud treatments makes their muddy hands as innocent as the children playing at the riverside, but the populace can see the difference.Their blinkered failure to understand the realities of public office indeed, to understand why business is on an investment strike or why the marginalised are protesting &#8211; explains why the ruling alliance is unable to come up with ways to defeat poverty, inequality and unemployment. In the process, South Africa, potentially so rich with possibilities, is becoming a poor country that will soon be unable to support its young and growing population.The year is just beginning; politically it s going to be what Twitter calls lit (internet or urban slang for intense/exciting, or a situation that is about to get exciting/about to heat up), because of the road leading to the ANC elective Congress in December. Poverty, inequality and unemployment must be addressed, but not by making the politicians the most unequal of all groups. In the meantime, our leaders should wash the designer mud from their hands and expensive SUVs and start taking their role as public servants seriously.