We have included below the full transcript of the unedited interview between Moneyweb journalist Warren Thompson and the lawyer representing the Oakbay group of companies, Gert van der Merwe as it happened on Tuesday, January 24. This follows the filing of the Oakbay response on January 20 to the minister of finance&#8217;s application for relief sought in the matter between the four big commercial banks and the Oakbay Group of companies.Due to the length of the interview, we have provided headings to assist with navigation. Need for the minister&#8217;s applicationWARREN THOMPSON: &#8230;we just wanted to discuss the reason for the affidavit and then obviously some of the points that you ve raised in the affidavit. &#8230;you had to respond to the request for relief that the minister of finance brought to the High Court in Pretoria through his application. What is effectively, if you could summarise, the response to that?GERT VAN DER MERWE: In essence, Warren, we were hoping that an opposing affidavit is not necessary, following a previous invitation to the minister to withdraw the application and I will briefly explain why. The application seeks for an order in terms of which the minister asks that the court confirms that there s no legal duty on him to intervene in the relationships between banks and customers. Now, what I need to be firm on is the fact that it was never disputed what his legal obligations are and it was never assumed that he had any legal obligation to assist Oakbay. So if it was not for the part I m going to brief you on now and notice of intention to oppose and the subsequent opposing affidavit would not have been filed in court.What caused the opposition to find some speed is the fact the minister then went on in his application and he appended what is called a FIC certificate and in the FIC certificate he refers to reported transactions and he insinuated that those transactions are improper in some way or the other and as a result thereof he uses that certificate in support of the relief he asks the court to give and that is against which we took exception. And as a result of that we filed opposing papers to explain to the court that the application is actually moot and ill-motivated. That is in essence what the opposing papers deal with.WARREN THOMPSON: Just coming back to the correspondence between yourself and the minister though, you said that it was never questioned in law that he had an obligation to fulfil, to intervene between the bank and customer relationship but it was never stated either. What I put to you is that the issue around this became so publicised, in fact &#8211; you refer to an interview between Nazeem Howa and Richard Quest on CNN such was the publicity around the closure of these accounts, which Oakbay brought to the attention of the public &#8211; that you don t think he was entitled to clarify for all and sundry, including the Inter-Ministerial Committee that was appointed by the governing party to look into this matter, to just state and have a court affirm the power that he has under law does not exist to intervene in these relationships.GERT VAN DER MERWE: I m glad that you state that and it gives me the opportunity to respond. The answer is the following, there is no way in which a widely-publicised issue can justify a court application, never. That means that every time there is a new movie we must go to court and ask for a declarator that there s a new movie and some people may or may not go to the movies to watch it. It s a false pretence under which you issue an application.Further, the minister knew he had two separate pieces of legal advice and memorandums he received from his own counsel, very senior counsel, Mr Gauntlett, long before he offered to give assistance to Mr Howa and long before he even approached the court in terms of which he knew very well that there s no legal obligation on him to intervene.So he knew that he can t intervene; we knew that he can t intervene and he waits for two or three months and then suddenly he bounces an application in terms of which he asks the court to confirm that. The court is not a consultant. The court is there to resolve disputes between parties and that s a legal argument, which we will obviously advance in court. But, Warren, the point I am trying to convey to you is the fact that something is publicised, even though it became moot, can never justify an application.WARREN THOMPSON: I appreciate that, but on the same point you must concede that you didn t state when the representatives of Oakbay were writing to the finance minister that you understood that there was no issue, that there was no way that the finance minister could intervene between the banker-client relationship. It was never stated, it was never explicit.GERT VAN DER MERWE: No, you are wrong.WARREN THOMPSON: In which correspondence did you state that to the minister?GERT VAN DER MERWE: The second letter Mr Howa wrote: he wrote a letter to the minister because I understand that there was at some point an appearance of the minister where he took exception to the fact that Mr Howa asked him for assistance. The very next morning Mr Howa wrote, that was the second letter, and it s an annexure to the minister s application. Mr Howa wrote a letter and said &#8216;let me just apologise and clarify, under no circumstances whatsoever did I resume to pressure you or influence you. We merely beg you for assistance&#8217; and that is as clear as it can get.What was Oakbay seeking from the minister?WARREN THOMPSON: What assistance did you want him to provide then, if you knew that he could not intervene in the bank-client relationship?GERT VAN DER MERWE: If we knew what kind of assistance he could give us we would have told him to do it. But I think what Mr Howa did and what was in his head at the time was simply the following: when he got notice of the fact that the bank accounts are closed and suddenly all the banks sang in choir about this, he directed a similar letter begging for help to the ANC, to the Democratic Alliance, to the president, to everybody he could think of: the governor of the Reserve Bank, the ombudsman of banks. From the top of my head I m just mentioning a few; there were many more and I think we referred to at least some of those in our papers.So if you ask me what the minister could have done, it is difficult to suspect what he could have done, but I assume the least he could have done was&#8230;, let s say it was Absa Bank, to pick up the phone and speak to somebody at Absa Bank and say, &#8216;Listen, is it true? Did you close these accounts and isn t there anything we can do to assist these employees?&#8217; Because that was the thrust of the cry for help &#8211; the saving of job losses.Job losses resulting from closure of accountsWARREN THOMPSON: Okay and just to be clear, no jobs have been lost as yet because of the closure of the accounts by the big four?GERT VAN DER MERWE: No, you are wrong. Some people have indeed lost their livelihood; some people did lose their jobs and those businesses were severely prejudiced.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay but these people lost their jobs because the big four closed the accounts with Oakbay or group companies under Oakbay?GERT VAN DER MERWE: Can you repeat the question?WARREN THOMPSON: I asked if there have been any job losses purely as a result of the four big banks closing the accounts with any of Oakbay or group or associated companies, and you said yes, there have been. Can you tell us who lost their jobs and in which businesses?GERT VAN DER MERWE: Can I ask did you have sight of the opposing papers?WARREN THOMPSON: Yes, I do, I have got that in front of me.GERT VAN DER MERWE: You will see I used one example, the example of Sahara Computers, where I explained in fair detail what the impact of the bank closures were and subsequently the notices of disassociation by many other businesses, which now caused Sahara &#8211; and I m referring to one because you ll appreciate otherwise we ll be busy for a day but the one example I m referring to is Sahara can t operate with their service providers. They can t operate or pay their suppliers; they can t deliver products because they don t have products and they don t have people who want to deliver for them. Now as a result of that it s obvious that there were job losses and it s obvious that there will be more.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay, I understand that but we are talking about two issues here. You said that as a result of the banks closing their accounts you ve suffered reputational risk.GERT VAN DER MERWE: No that s not what I said.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay, then please explain how the closure of the banks has resulted in the loss of jobs.GERT VAN DER MERWE: Okay, let me maybe go back one step. The word &#8216;reputation&#8217; or &#8216;risk&#8217; I think is misplaced, Warren, and I m not fighting with you. I m trying to be of assistance in order to ensure there is a clear understanding of where we are.The reputational risk was one of the reasons the banks advanced when they closed the accounts. That was something that came from the banks &#8211; it was never something raised by Sahara, for instance. So that takes care of that issue. Now, I m a little bit confused as to what you asked me: do you suggest that there were no job losses? Is that where we have a dispute at the moment?WARREN THOMPSON: I m trying to understand the job losses that resulted from the banks closing the accounts?GERT VAN DER MERWE: Oh, okay, sorry. The moment the bank accounts were closed I think it s unreasonable to assume that the next morning one would give notices to your employees to get rid of them or to retrench them. I think the closure of bank accounts constricted the business to such an extent that it became impossible to operate a normal business and from that your normal retrenchments typically followed. Is that clearer?WARREN THOMPSON: I kind of follow it because you are saying that you can t operate without the bank accounts.GERT VAN DER MERWE: Correct.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay, so those job losses have applied to Sahara in particular. Any other companies?GERT VAN DER MERWE: I won t be able to tell you since I don t know that answer. I referred specifically to Sahara, which was severely prejudiced as a result of the closures.The purpose and inclusion of the FIC certificateWARREN THOMPSON: Just coming back to the certificate that the minister published in his affidavit, that was from the FIC. You said in your responding affidavit, The FIC certificate is entirely irrelevant to the issues in the declaratory application and ought to be struck out&#8217;. Now, I think as far as I have read and I understand, in the words of the FIC director that was in the letter attached to the finance minister s application, he says, I must emphasise that such a certificate is only to be used for the purpose of introducing evidence in legal proceedings and will only confirm or refute the receipt of reports pursuant to the FIC Act. So as far as I understand, the use of that certificate, it was merely the finance minister including that to show that banks had, in fact, reported suspicious transactions and under that basis had the right to close the accounts, although they didn t explicitly state that, bar I think Standard Bank in one of its letters to you.The question then is why do you say that the certificate is not relevant? It obviously was just a certificate proving that the banks had made reports to the FIC and that the finance minister was aware of that. So if they have a basis under anti-money laundering rules or regulations to close your accounts, there was proof that someone was making reports, although, as the FIC director says in his letter, the certificate is just to show that the reports were made, not to validate any evidence in a court of law.GERT VAN DER MERWE: Warren, I must firstly deal with the nature of such a certificate, then you will immediately see the thrust of the argument and then you will then, I hope, understand what the argument is from the respondent s side. A transaction gets reported under FIC if it complies with certain requirements. It can be anything: it can be a round figure that s paid; it can be a large amount of money that s paid; it can be a repetitive payment; a recurring payment; there are so many requirements which causes it can be a cash payment; it can be a cash withdrawal; there are so many reasons for reporting a transaction. I can tell you that transactions that you ve done have been reported. Many, millions of transactions get reported and that is also confirmed in the affidavit served by the Financial Intelligence Centre. So the nature of reported transactions can never be assumed to be ill-fated or ill-considered. That is the first point I must make clear: that millions of transactions get reported. That doesn t mean that the transaction was wrong or unlawful or for the wrong purpose. That s a point I need to raise clearly.Now, if you then use a report of reported transactions or a certificate of reported transactions and you apply that certificate in argument that some people, let s call them Oakbay or the Guptas acted improprietry towards their account, then at least you must show which of these transactions were improper. Now, what he did is he appended it and said here is the certificate and he left it for us to try and find out which of these transactions were unlawful or for suspicious reasons conducted on the bank accounts. But unfortunately the certificate was so embarrassing and vague that we had to employ an international forensic audit company to assist us in just identifying the transactions.Warren, I need to add, remember that I launched an application against FIC to get more detail and they refused to give it to me. In fact, they filed opposing papers to my application. So they left it up to me to try and find these transactions and to try and explain these transactions, while the minister could just say that this is the certificate, it doesn t imply any wrongdoing but these were the reported transactions. Now, that s phase one. Phase two is a bank can never rely on reported transactions to close bank accounts.Let s take a company, any big company you can think of, those companies will transfer millions of rands when they pay salaries, they will transfer millions of rands when they acquire their stock and those transactions are reported because they comply with certain requirements for causing such a transaction to be reported. That being said, there will be companies out there with hundreds of reported transactions and the banks won t close those accounts because the banks know that those transactions might not be anything improper, and the same applies to Oakbay. But they couldn t show one single transaction in that certificate, which was a transaction conducted on an improper basis or with ill-intent. That is where my concern lies. He takes a document, on the face of it completely, completely fine and without any indication of wrongdoing and he presents it so that people out there and journalists believe that that report suggests wrongdoing.WARREN THOMPSON: I don t think he stated that in his affidavit that it was intended to be prosecuted, and I go back to the words that the director of the FIC used when he provided the certificate, he says, It s purely introducing evidence in legal proceedings and will only confirm or refute the receipt of reports pursuant to the FIC Act. So the way I understand the affidavit the finance minister put forth is that he had in terms of closing accounts on account of anti-money laundering or suspicious transactions, there was in fact something there and the certificate provided a list of reports that the banks in totality or in aggregate had made to the FIC.So I never understood why you these it actually lists the reports in the certificate and some of them, as you know, have multiple transactions, so it s not intended to be prosecuted on a line by line basis, as far as I understood it. It was merely to show that the banks had something, some basis on which to act in closing the accounts and it actually, as it says it s just to prove that there were reports that were filed. So how do you get to the point where GERT VAN DER MERWE: But, Warren, I m sorry to interrupt you, the point is missed and please pardon me if I say you missed the point completely. Two-thirds of the transactions in the certificate were conducted after the banks decided to close the bank accounts. Now, isn t that a self-destructive argument to say that the minister wanted to show that the banks had good reason to close the accounts.Basis for closure of accountsWARREN THOMPSON: Well, I have to invert the question and say but what about the transactions that they used if you have one suspicious transaction the bank, as far as I ve read across the laws that have been presented in these two affidavits, the banks have the right to close the account. In fact, I understand that the banks can close the account without giving a reason or without having to have a reason. If they decided they didn t want to do business with me they could close my account and that is supported in law.GERT VAN DER MERWE: That s perfectly correct. That s what they did. My advice to client would have been that there is no recourse but that s not what they did. Now you just said that all the banks, except for one, relies on these transactions and I told you just now that those transactions were not even conducted by the time they had picked a decision. Those decisions were taken with malice intent and under those circumstances you do not have the right to cancel an agreement because your intent is and then you incur damages.WARREN THOMPSON: But the FIC director was just citing providing a certificate of all suspicious transactions, what I m saying is the banks could have used the transactions that occurred before they gave notice to close their accounts as the basis to close their accounts in line with AML or any international legislation that they are party to. So if you have one suspicious transaction with the bank they can close the account, so what I m saying is there were transactions before that were suspicious and could have easily been used as the basis to close the accounts. I come back to this point GERT VAN DER MERWE: I wouldn t like to debate this because this is merely an interview to tell you what s in our opposing papers. It s an interesting legal argument but the point is the words suspicious transactions is defined in the Act and you need to understand the Act to know what that means. It means under a particular section, Section 29 as to a suspicious transaction is reported, the fact that it s suspicious can never, never justify a decision that is wrong, it is just reported under that section and the bank can never attribute any decision on that basis. So if that is what they have done then you ve just won my case. But I m not sure if that is what they ve done, I think you are wrong.WARREN THOMPSON: You filed the response to minister s application for relief, you ve asked the court to dismiss it, what happens next?GERT VAN DER MERWE: Well, what will happen now is that the minister may file a replying affidavit to our opposing papers, then the parties will file heads of argument during the course of February, and then the matter will eventually be heard on March 28 this year.WARREN THOMPSON: And when you say read, is that the High Court will issue a judgement in respect of a decision, essentially?GERT VAN DER MERWE: Yes, it s unfortunate that the court might in all likelihood decide that the minister did not have a legal obligation but that s not disputed, so it s a moot ending to this whole process.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay, great. Gert, I think we are going to have to leave it there for now but obviously we ll wait to see the minister s response and get your opinion on things then.