The South African Reserve Bank has left interest rates unchanged as inflation remains uncomfortably close to the upper end of the central bank s target range. The benchmark repo rate, or rate at while the central bank lends money to banks, has been on hold at 7% since the Sarb s March 2016 Monetary Policy Committee meeting. As such, the prime lending rate at which banks lend money to customers remains at 10.5%. Analysts expected the bank to leave rates on hold in an attempt to coax consumer inflation back into its 3% to 6% target range.Data from Statistics South Africa shows the consumer price index (CPI) quickened to 6.8% year-on-year in December, largely due to a drought-fuelled surge in food prices. Headline inflation tracked the Sarb s forecasts, peaking at 6.6% in the fourth quarter while annual consumer price inflation rose to 6.4% in 2016 from 4.6% previously.In a statement echoing that of November 2016, Sarb governor Lesetja Kganyago warned that the risks to inflation remain high.The central bank s inflation outlook has since deteriorated, with inflation now expected to return to within the target range during the fourth quarter of 2017. Headline inflation is expected to average at 6.2% for the year compared with the 5.8% forecast previously. This deterioration is mainly due to changed assumptions regarding international oil prices, the domestic fuel prices and the outlook for food prices, which more than offset the favourable exchange rate assumption, he said.According to Kganyago there are tentative signs of global inflation increasing as higher food and energy prices see deflation fears recede.The US Federal Reserve increased its short-term interest rates for the second time in a decade in December 2016, up from 0.5% to 0.75%. At the time, Fed officials said they expected to lift the benchmark rate three more times in 2017, two or three times in 2018 and three times in 2019. The Sarb expects further increases to come at a relatively moderate pace due to an uncertain economic policy environment.The rand, which traded in a range of between R14.22 and R13.46 against the US dollar since the previous MPC meeting, was positively impacted by the fact that South Africa avoided a credit ratings downgrade. It appreciated by 5.6% against the dollar and by 4.2% on a trade-weighted basis.The rand is expected to remain sensitive to domestic and external shocks, particularly a changing US monetary policy stance. A decline in the relative interest rates between South Africa and the US could see investors shun local bonds in favour of more secure US bonds. The Sarb s domestic outlook remains weak, with growth due to remain below potential . The bank expects growth to have averaged [at] 0.4% in 2016, although recent monthly data for the fourth quarter suggest that there may be downside risk to this forecast, said Kganyago. The economy is expected to grow by 1.1% in 2017 and 1.6% in 2018. Kganyago said structural reforms, which could increase business and consumer confidence, are necessary for a significant improvement in the country s growth prospects.Deputy governor Kuben Naidoo said alleviating the country s energy constraints, improving the performance of state-owned enterprises and addressing regulatory uncertainty in several sectors of the economy, is likely to improve the domestic growth rate. He said the global growth outlook remains uncertain as the policies of the new Trump administration and the size of an anticipated fiscal stimulus remains unclear. Should protectionist threats from the US transpire it will affect commodity prices and emerging markets in turn. The Committee retains the view that we may be near the end of the hiking cycle. However, should second round effects emerge that undermine the longer-term outlook, there may be a reassessment of this view, he said.While there was no discussion of a rate hike during the MPC s deliberations and its view that a hiking cycle may be drawing to a close, a decrease in rates in not necessarily around the corner , he said.Sizwe Nxedlana, chief economist at FNB cited the Sarb&#8217;s concerns about the upside risks to inflation as a factor that may see interest rates remain on hold for some time.&#8220;Indeed the rand has stabilised and should offer some support to the inflation outlook, however, risks stemming from global events could destabilise the rand in the months ahead, and could defer the expected improvement of the inflation rate. As such we believe the Sarb will opt to keep rates on hold until greater policy clarity from the US emerges,&#8221; he said.