US President-elect Donald Trump called NATO obsolete, predicted that other European Union members would follow the UK in leaving the bloc and threatened BMW with import duties over a planned plant in Mexico, according to an interview with Germany s Bild newspaper that will raise concerns in Berlin over trans-Atlantic relations.Quoted in German from a conversation held in English, Trump predicted Britain s exit from the EU will be a success and portrayed the EU as an instrument of German domination with the purpose of beating the US in international trade. For that reason, Trump said, he s fairly indifferent whether the EU breaks up or stays together, according to Bild.Trump s reported comments leave little doubt that he will stick to campaign positions and may in some cases upend decades of US foreign policy, putting him fundamentally at odds with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on issues from free trade and refugees to security and the EU s role in the world. On Russia, he suggested he might use economic sanctions imposed for Vladimir Putin s encroachment on Ukraine as leverage in nuclear-arms reduction talks, while NATO, he said, has problems. It s obsolete, first because it was designed many, many years ago, Trump was quoted as saying about the trans-Atlantic military alliance. Secondly, countries aren t paying what they should and NATO didn t deal with terrorism. While those comments expanded on doubts Trump raised about the North Atlantic Treaty Organization during his campaign, he reserved some of his most dismissive remarks for the EU and Merkel, whose open-border refugee policy he called a catastrophic mistake. In contrast, Trump praised Britons for voting last year to leave the EU. People and countries want their own identity and don t want outsiders to come in and destroy it. The UK is smart to leave the bloc because the EU is basically a means to an end for Germany, Bild cited Trump as saying. If you ask me, more countries will leave, he was quoted as saying.While Trump blamed Brexit on an influx of refugees he said that Britain was forced to accept, the UK s number of asylum applications in 2015 was a fraction of the 890,000 refugees who arrived in Germany that year at the peak of Europe s migrant crisis.With Merkel facing an unprecedented challenge from the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany as she seeks a fourth term this fall, Trump was asked whether he d like to see her re-elected. He said he couldn t say, adding that while he respects Merkel, who s been in office for 11 years, he doesn t know her and she has hurt Germany by letting all these illegals into the country.In line with his threats against other automakers, Trump said Bayerische Motoren Werke AG would face a 35 percent import duty for foreign-built BMW cars sold in the US BMW should scrap plans to open a new plant in Mexico and build the factory in the US instead, he was quoted as saying. BMW plans to start building 3 Series sedans at San Luis Potos in 2019. 2017 Bloomberg