The Council of Medical Schemes (CMS) is working on a new proposal to review prescribed minimum benefits (PMBs) over the year.The total PMB package will be reassessed and one of the review objectives will be to align PMBs with health policy developments suitable for National Health Insurance (NHI).PMBs are a mandatory set of defined benefits that medical schemes must provide cover for to all medical scheme members. These ensure members have access to a certain minimum level of health services, regardless of the benefit option chosen. It currently covers medical emergencies, 25 chronic and 270 medical conditions. PMBs have to be reviewed bi-annually, but since the last review was submitted in 2010 and &#8211; as requested by the National Department of Health (NDoH) to include primary care benefits and preventive care &#8211; the total package will be reviewed, says Dr Elsab Conradie, general manager of stakeholder relations at the CMS.According to the CMS circular about the review, the PMB package will be anchored in an NHI context. A comprehensive set of in-hospital and out-of-hospital benefits are expected to be specified, but scheme members are concerned that the PMB cover they currently have, and for which expenses medical schemes are responsible, could be reduced. This could happen if PMBs are adapted to provide only basic care as an NHI package.The Hospital Association of South Africa also cautioned in a statement that the CMS should seek to not unduly reduce patient protections and benefits.Conradie says it is too early to jump to conclusions. Due to the total revision, the package, once finalised, may perhaps be also suitable as a NHI package. However, until the package is finalised, implemented and tested, it is way too soon to make any assumptions. Affordability checkIt should be good news for medical schemes that the sustainability and affordability of the PMB package will form part of the review.The apparent oversupply and over-charging for PMB services has a direct impact on the expenditure and price inflation of schemes. Manipulation of PMB claims by service providers as a cost escalator for schemes was detailed in various papers submitted in the Private Healthcare Market Inquiry.Dries la Grange, CEO of Bestmed, says to avoid manipulation of claim codes by some service providers, PMB claims need to be examined in great detail. This adds to schemes administration costs.Other concernsBut the misinterpretation of PMBs is a huge problem for scheme members and service providers as well. Hopefully a reviewed package will provide more clarity around claim codes and benefits.Dr Jonathan Broomberg, CEO of Discovery Health, says conditions that are frequently mistakenly claimed for as PMBs include hernias, certain types of depression, enlargement of the prostate and Vitamin D deficiency. There is also uncertainty around how the medicine and treatments costs are covered. One of the biggest misconceptions is that the scheme should pay all accounts in full, says La Grange.Although the PMB diseases and conditions are set, the designated service providers (DSP) and lists of medicines that individual schemes use, can differ. If scheme members choose to use different treatments and providers than those their schemes offer, they will be liable for some of the cost. Members do not see PMBs as a minimum benefit; they expect the maximum. They don t understand that protocols and formularies can be used. Some service providers are just as puzzled as members. Bestmed s claims department says that confusion is often created by these service providers when they use the incorrect combinations of claim codes.DSPs also make mistakes on members accounts when they erroneously don t ask the contracted DSP fee.Some doctors, who are not part of the DSP network, are not aware that if a scheme has a DSP arrangement they are obliged only to pay what the DSP fee would have been. We find that some practices are for instance under the impression that prostheses should be paid for in full, although it has a DSP price, La Grange says.According to him, it seems that in-hospital complaints about PMBs are decreasing, but out-of-hospital PMB claims still cause real headaches for service providers, schemes and members.The way forwardThe CMS promises that the review will be a participative process. All stakeholders from the private healthcare sector, as well as the Department of Health, will be invited to the workshops and committees, as per the circular, to provide input in order to finalise the review, Conradie says.Broomberg is positive about the intended review. Discovery Health believe that a thorough and rigorous review of PMBs is necessary. The process outlined by the CMS appears to be carefully designed and rigorous and we look forward to working closely with the CMS to support this review. The timeframe shows a PMB workshop with stakeholders is scheduled for February 2017 and stakeholder consultation on a proposed package by September 2017. The drafting of the regulations is timed for October 2017 until March 2018.