Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.UK rulingThe British Supreme Court ruled this morning that UK Prime Minister Theresa May must seek the permission of parliament to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to start the country&#8217;s exit from the European Union. The 11-judge court said, however, that the devolved administrations in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland would not need to be consulted on the decision to trigger Brexit talks. The pound, which dropped in the immediate aftermath of the announcement, was trading broadly unchanged at $1.2496 by 5:09am ET. Dollar warningThe dollar slumped to the weakest level in six weeks yesterday after US Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin said an excessively strong dollar could have a negative short-term effect on the economy. The greenback has reversed those declines this morning as investors continue to digest the policies signed by President Trump yesterday, including the withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index was 0.1% higher at 5:23am ET, and is down 1.7% so far this year. Euro area growthAlthough composite PMI for the euro area slipped slightly to 54.3 in January, IHS Markit said economic momentum in the single-currency area remains robust. Inflation pressures are starting to build, according to the report, but are being driven by commodity price rises and import costs due to the weakening euro. Economic prospects in France, which is facing a presidential election this year, also look positive, with the composite PMI rising to 53.8, the highest since June 2011. Markets riseOvernight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.1% while Japan&#8217;s Topix index ended the session down 0.6%, for its lowest close since December 7. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index had added 0.3% by 5:39am ET with miners leading the gains. S&amp;P 500 futures were broadly unchanged. Profit warningsBT Group saw its stock drop as much as 19% this morning after the company cut its outlook for the coming years and revealed &#8220;inappropriate behaviour in its Italian unit had forced a tripling of provisions for losses there. Aryzta dropped as much as 35% after a profit warning due to the loss of manufacturing contracts in the US. There was better news for shareholders of Italian insurer Assicurazioni Generali, which saw a jump of as much as 11% on reports Intesa Sanpaolo is considering an all-stock offer. 2017 Bloomberg