Recently Moneyweb looked what it means to rebalance a portfolio, and why it is an important part of staying diversified. Since you cannot know which fund or asset class will outperform in any year, it is important to keep checking that you aren&#8217;t overexposed or underexposed to any particular investment.However, it is important to bear in mind that there are costs involved in rebalancing a portfolio. To begin with, you may incur transaction fees.If you are investing in unit trusts this may mean paying redemption fees on the funds you sell and upfront charges on those you buy, although these have become rare in South Africa. If you are using exchange-traded funds (ETFs), buying and selling will always require you to pay brokerage.More significantly, however, is that transfers between funds may attract capital gains or even income tax. This is because you will need to sell units in one fund to buy in another fund, and the gain you realise on the sale may be taxable.This doesn&#8217;t apply if you are using a product such as a retirement annuity, preservation fund or living annuity, as these are all exempt from taxes. However, if you sell units in a stand-alone unit trust or exchange-traded fund, you may have to think about the implications.Firstly, the South African Revenue Service (Sars) may consider whether the funds you have sold count as an investment or as trading stock. The distinction is important because if you sell trading stock, the gain you make will be considered revenue. In other words the full amount will be taxed at your normal income tax rate.If however it is seen as a long-term investment, then any profit will be viewed as a capital gain. This is far more preferable because not only is the first R30 000 of any capital gain tax free, but only a third of the remainder will be taxed at your normal income tax rate.When to rebalanceConsidering what any rebalancing will cost you is important as you need to be sure that it is worth it. This is one of the reasons why advisers usually recommend re-balancing no more than once a year, as the costs otherwise become too high.Even if you review your portfolio only once a year, however, it is worth asking whether your portfolio has shifted enough to make rebalancing necessary. It is therefore worth having some sort of parameters in place for deciding this beforehand so that you make an objective judgement.A good approach is to only rebalance if any of the funds or asset classes have shifted more than a certain percentage away from their original allocation. This could be 5% or 7%, to ensure that you are never too far from your optimal selection.For instance, assume that you decided that a 5% deviation was your standard. If you began with an original portfolio of three different funds, all weighted equally at 33%, you would then only rebalance at your annual review if any of those funds had grown to more than 38% of your portfolio, or shrunk to under 28%.Constant rebalancingIf you are making regular monthly investments, there is however also another approach to rebalancing which will never attract any additional costs. It will only require you to dedicate a little extra time.Instead of setting up debit orders every month to automatically invest across all the funds in your portfolio, you can decide where to allocate your funds each month based on your current portfolio mix. By doing this you can constantly keep your asset allocation in line with where you would like it to be.As you will never be selling any investments, there will be no extra transaction costs and you won&#8217;t incur any taxes. You do however have to be sure that you will be disciplined enough to manage this every month, and to keep up to date with the performance of your portfolio.