The current set of investment tax incentives (ITIs), employed by the South African government, has influenced the flow of private capital to less productive sectors of the economy, reveals a new report by the World Bank. The economic report, which comes as the country is expected to record its third consecutive year of negative GDP per capita growth, states increasing investment is key to boosting growth and creating sustainable jobs.The financial institution has lowered its growth estimate for 2016 to 0.4% from 0.8%. It now sees the economy growing at 1.1% and 1.8% in 2017 and 2018 respectively.Based on the growth outlook and the reliance of the extremely poor on social grants for income, poverty is expected to remain fairly constant. But the widening gap between those with and without jobs should see inequality rise by 1.3% between 2010/2011 and 2017/2018. South Africa s unemployment rate of 27.1%, as registered in the third quarter of 2016, is at a 13-year high.Re-orienting ITIs away from mining and toward service sectors would increase growth and job creation at no additional cost to the fiscus, the World Bank said. Since the end of the commodity super cycle mining has fared poorly while manufacturing, agriculture and trade have become more competitive, it said. The research shows all sectors benefit from a marginal effective tax rate (METR) below that of the corporate income tax (CIT) rate of 28%. According to the World Bank, manufacturing is among the highest taxed sectors, due to its high weight of inventory and relatively high rate of inflation in South Africa. In contrast, mining s METR of -1.2% is a result of the fact that mining companies can immediately and fully write off capital investments in the year incurred as well as the CIT formula for gold. To generate a post-tax rate of return of 10% on investment, a pretax rate of return of 8.8% is needed in mining, against a pretax rate of return of 29.6% in the manufacturing sector At the extreme, the negative METR in the mining sector means that companies are encouraged to invest in projects that provide hardly any economic returns, just to lower their tax burden, it said.It went on to add that trends in capital allocation have inhibited GDP growth and generated losses in aggregate capital productivity, with a deterioration in the economy s capacity to direct private investment toward sectors with economic growth potential evident from 2008. It has also impacted job creation. The chart, above, shows that manufacturing, agriculture and mining have all shed jobs since democracy, with the services sectors barring construction creating the vast majority of jobs. Available data shows tax incentives are to have contributed to an increase in investment of R4.5 billion in 2012 from R2.8 billion in 2006.The incentives are said to have directly created 20 883 additional jobs in 2012. World Bank calculations show that capital allowances put the fiscal cost of creating one additional job at almost R188 377 per annum, far outweighing the cost of fully subsidising the worker as the average gross labour remuneration per worker was R107 509 in 2012. This seemingly excessive cost stems to a large extent from the fact that allowances granted to some sectors do not generate any additional investment or jobs. Indeed, only retaining allowances granted to sectors creating additional jobs would bring the average cost to R 89 026 as more than half of the allowances go to other sectors, the World Bank said.It suggests that a better targeting of capital allowances would generate the same amount of additional investment at a lower cost.