Investors continue to give Mr Price&#8217;s shares a dressing down as the clothing and homeware retailer has again blamed aggressive promotional activity from competitors and a tough retail environment for downbeat sales.Mr Price&#8217;s shares finished 4.7% lower on Tuesday, extending a more than five-month long sell-off that has wiped nearly R15 billion off its market capitalisation.Mr Price reported a 0.5% decline in sales to R6.1 billion for the quarter leading to Christmas. Comparable store sales (which exclude new stores opened) declined by 2.4%. Product inflation was 10.8%.The Durban-based retailer has been at pains to allay market jitters, attributing declining apparel sales over the last year to an unseasonably warm winter and promotional markdowns by competitors to clear inventory.Market watchers say Mr Price was caught sleeping and didn t execute its strategy well at a time when its competitors including international counters Cotton On and H&amp;M profited at its expense by discounting their merchandise. The laggard at Mr Price was its MRP Apparel and ladies clothing brand Miladys with sales suffering a decline of 1.9% and 0.7% respectively. Other divisions fared better: MRP Home and Sheet Street grew sales by 1.8% and 5% respectively, and MRP Sport sales accelerated sales by 3.9%.Rexsolom Invest s portfolio manager Anthony Rocchi says the retailer s sales update is a confirmation of the poor retail environment in SA and heavy competitor discounting.To curtail further declines in sales, Mr Price s CEO Stuart Bird recently told analysts that its recovery plan includes investing in more durable wear than its current high-fashion offering, competitive pricing and improving the customer shopping experience.Mr Price s festive season trade fared better with December group sales accelerating by 3.9% and all divisions reporting single-digit growth.Senior portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments Wayne McCurrie says to a large extent the market expected the poor sales update. This is due to a series of disappointing sales&#8217; updates since September 2016. We know that Mr Price had a tough time last year. The share price has pulled back from the R240 level [in August 2016] to about R160. The market is looking at when is the worst going to be behind it. Overall, it s a good company with a good management team but they just got something wrong at the retailer, McCurrie says. Mr Price was often described by the investment community as defensive because of its cash-based value model. The theory was that during tough economic times, consumers would trade down to Mr Price, putting the retailer in good stead compared with its competitors.Rocchi says tough trading conditions have reset investor expectations from SA retailers which is a good thing . Reflecting negative investor sentiment, Mr Price s PE multiple has fallen from its lofty heights (30x) to a more realistic 16x. This brings it in line with The Foschini Group (16xPE) and marginally higher than Truworths (12xPE).