Executives from BHP Billiton Ltd., the world s biggest miner, met with President-elect Donald Trump for talks on the industry, as the incoming administration s pledges to boost infrastructure spending lift metals and producers.Chief Executive Officer Andrew Mackenzie and Chairman Jacques Nasser met Tuesday in New York with Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence to discuss subjects including the resources sector and BHP s investments in the U.S., according to a statement Wednesday from the Melbourne-based company.Mackenzie told investors at a November meeting that BHP hoped Trump s administration would honor commitments by the U.S. to global climate change accords, while Nasser warned at the meeting over risks of any move by the president-elect to impose large tariffs on Chinese imports. The company declined to immediately provide details of specific issues discussed in Tuesday s talks.BHP is the largest overseas investor in U.S. shale, has offshore oil and gas assets in the Gulf of Mexico and is a partner with Rio Tinto Group in a copper project in Arizona. London-based Rio is seeking talks with Trump s administration, CEO Jean-Sebastien Jacques said last month in Melbourne.Miners boost Trump s signals that he could spend billions of dollars to rebuild U.S. infrastructure lifted metals and producers in the wake of his election, promising to bolster global demand and add to a commodities price revival driven in 2016 by stimulus in China. The Bloomberg World Mining Index has advanced about 4.6 percent since Trump s victory in November, while the London Metal Exchange Index of six key metals jumped about 6 percent.BHP stock rose 2.6 percent in Sydney on Wednesday to the highest close since Dec. 13.While Trump has promised to build roads, bridges and airports, the U.S. remains a smaller metals consumer and less reliant on imports than China. A 10 percent surge in U.S. copper demand would be equivalent to just a 1.5 percent gain in consumption in China, the world s No. 1 user of commodities, UBS Group AG estimates.Trump s spokesman Sean Spicer confirmed BHP executives were among those to hold meetings Tuesday with the incoming administration. 2017 Bloomberg L.P