South Africa’s rand retreated early on Tuesday from a nine-month high notched up in the previous session after Cyril Ramaphosa was elected leader of the African National Congress. As ANC leader, Ramaphosa, a 65-year-old union leader turned businessman, is likely to become the next president after elections in 2019. At 0755 GMT, the rand was 0.41% weaker against the dollar at R12.82, with some investors worried about the composition of Ramaphosa leadership team.  Ramaphosa will be the ANC’s flag-bearer in the 2019 national election, but will have to contend with allies of his defeated rival, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, in his leadership team. “Markets got this one wrong – and were pricing in a Cyril slate victory,” said Geoff Blount, managing director of BayHill Capital. Ramaphosa has promised to fight corruption and revitalise the economy. Dlamini-Zuma is a veteran campaigner against racial economic inequality. “There is some concern that the split of the ANC top 6 (officials) might hinder Cyril Ramaphosa’s ability to invoke the much needed reforms he has been campaigning on,” said Shaun Murison, currency strategist at IG Markets. Expectations that Ramaphosa would win the ANC race had pushed the rand to 12.52 per dollar on Monday, its firmest since March 27 before a cabinet reshuffle by President Jacob Zuma rocked markets and triggered credit ratings downgrades to “junk”. On Tuesday, government bonds see-sawed in early deals before the yield on the benchmark instrument due in 2026 fell 9 basis points to 8.765%. Ramaphosa, a former chairman of Africa’s biggest telecoms operator MTN Group, is seen by business leaders as well placed to turn around an economy with a nearly 28 % unemployment rate. In an open letter to Ramaphosa, Mike Brown, the chief executive of South Africa’s No.4 bank, Nedbank, said: “Your election presents an opportunity to renew confidence in South Africa, both internally and externally.” The blue-chip stock index, the JSE Top-40, added 1% with banks, considered the barometer of economic sentiment, among the biggest gainers. The banking index rose more than 5% with FirstRand, the largest lender by market value, surging more than 7%.  Read: Ramaphosa to give banks flying start?