If you ever hear strange noises outside the window of your flat at 23:15 on a Friday night, peek outside and see someone doing something vaguely resembling exercises, don’t call the police. At least not immediately. You see there is a good chance that the woman gasping for air while running in circles around the apartment block is me – busy with a desperate last attempt to achieve my weekly Vitality Active Rewards goal before midnight. In my case, it basically means running 30 minutes at least three days a week with an average heart rate that feels like death is around the next corner, but that is allegedly proposed by the American College for Sports Medicine. Since I joined the programme two years ago, reaching this goal has become one of the targets I set myself every week. (Ok, truth be told, most weeks it is my only target.) While my therapist regularly warns against the dangers of “obsession”, I feel that “commitment” is a more apt description for my resolve. Such is the level of determination that a friend recently observed: “Who needs a dog? We can just fasten our fitness devices to you!” How this transpired  Having failed to convince the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee that the rapid eye movement associated with reading qualified as a sport, I joined the gym about four years ago. At the time, it was cheaper to sign up for Discovery Vitality and buy a gym subscription than just doing the latter, so I took the plunge. I didn’t go that often, but slowly but surely embarked on a journey that involved slightly more action than switching a book for a movie. When Discovery introduced an extension in the form of the Active Rewards programme two years later, I signed up for that as well. No additional costs were involved and I could receive substantially more benefits – with one caveat: I now had to exercise regularly as explained above. Being quite sceptical of any financial product that promises a reward (reward for whom?) or bonus (higher initial fees paid out as a “bonus” thanks to compounding after the provider took a cut?) I naturally wondered if the programme was really worthwhile. Regular Moneyweb readers will remember that I was quite critical of revisions introduced to the programme after about six months, particularly since the changes could influence the cash-flow of members who signed up for the Apple Watch. Following a public outcry, the system was revised, but integration problems with device providers like TomTom left a bad taste in my mouth. But after some teething problems, I can honestly say that the programme has been worth my while – in more ways than one. Let’s look at the financial impact first. To calculate my benefit during 2017, I have only included reimbursements of those expenses I would have had even in the absence of the Active Rewards programme (in other words, I didn’t incur these costs merely because I could get a discount on the programme). Since peanut butter bliss smoothies are not something I generally would have bought, I have disregarded these items in the calculation. Description of reimbursement Amount Monthly gym fee – R175 x 12, capped at R2 000 R2 000 1 x Plane ticket “boosted”, excluding taxes R1 074 1 x Plane ticket “boosted”, excluding taxes R2 538 Total R5 612 If one argues that I had to be a Vitality member to activate the Active Rewards benefit, the effective reimbursement reduces to R2 984, which is still enough for my December plane ticket. The thing with rewards programmes in general is that one needs to think carefully about what it is you require and why you sign up – the considerations and numbers will differ for each individual. Personally, the financial benefit wouldn’t nearly have been as substantial had I also signed up for the Apple Watch (which would have required buying an Apple iPhone and getting a Discovery Gold Card in my case). I also become hesitant to take on more benefits when it requires additional activation fees or further paid-for assessments, but one needs to do the calculations on a case-by-case basis to see if it is worthwhile. Ultimately, it is not all about rands and cents, but about value. While the Discovery model encourages clients to sign up for more products, tread with caution where it is linked to certain targets, as your initial enthusiasm may wane or benefits could be reduced – potentially just leaving an expense. At the moment, I am seriously considering terminating my Team Vitality running membership in 2018, since its value-for-money has reduced significantly over the past two years, considering my personal circumstances. Of course, the aim of the Active Rewards programme is not monthly financial gain, but to promote healthy behaviour and reduce health costs in the long run. And I can honestly say that I have benefited in the health department, even though my aim was not to reduce my cholesterol level or lose weight. Moreover, I think society in general has benefited greatly due to fewer road rage incidents and angry comment section posts on my part. An investment in your health is arguably one of the best you can make. (In this regard, it would be highly appreciated if someone can come up with a healthy green vegetable with a “meatier” taste. Or a slightly higher alcohol content.) So… If you ever hear strange noises outside the window of your flat at 23:15 on a Friday night, peek outside and see someone doing something vaguely resembling exercises, don’t call the police. At least not before 30 minutes have passed. Read more of Commandments of a Cheapskate columns:  A salary-earner’s pursuit of financial health Rethink your approach to car buying The big decision: What to do with your fortune How to flee from financial FOMO