And here we all thought we’d go sailing into the December/January holidays on autopilot, with ‘only’ the outcome of the ANC elective conference to worry about. Instead, Steinhoff. And not just Steinhoff, but a white-knuckle week (and counting) on the JSE. What we saw on the market last week was absolute panic. Buy-and-hold investors – the same talking heads we listen to and watch daily – were changing their minds on stocks completely. Some preferred a more ‘revisionist’ stance. Many fashioned themselves as experts with ‘I-told-sos’, in hindsight of course. The fundamental problem here is that these are many of the same people urging investors to hold stocks for the long-term and ignore the noise. Decisions that were completely irrational were justified with folksy Warren Buffett quotes (I didn’t see the famous one often misattributed to Keynes, which is somewhat disappointing!). But, for every Buffett quote justifying one position, there’s another quote defending the opposite position. Quite convenient. Or is that inconvenient?  Steinhoff is one thing. So too EOH. But the other moves? Many, many companies were roaring up – and down – by 5%/10%/15%/20% for no obvious reason… Worse were those listed entities of questionable quality that were suddenly “obvious” buys! There were two trends at play here. One, a wall of money trying to exit Steinhoff at any price (we know, not only from the mountain of bids in the market, but because many fund managers disclosed their ‘strategy’ to sell immediately). Once they’d ‘gotten out’, they then had to do something with this money, which could explain some of the more erratic moves on the market last week. Second, seemingly, were retail investors panicking and selling anything deemed risky and rushing to buy something else on their watchlist…. Steinhoff The troubles at Steinhoff seem to be fairly well understood. Auditors refused to sign off the 2017 annual financial statements. We don’t yet know precisely why but one can infer these things, particularly after reading the Viceroy Research report. It bears repeating that the contents of that report remain untested and unproven at this stage (Read more: Steinhoff: The morning after).   The company has disclosed the size of the ‘hole’: €6 billion (±R100 billion, in round numbers). Technically, these are “issues subject to the investigation and to the validity and recoverability of certain non-South African assets of the company”. That Steinhoff was able to publicly quantify these just one day after the original Sens announcement about Markus Jooste’s resignation, which sent the shares into free-fall, means that this didn’t “suddenly” happen last week. The results were due on December 6 (before their postponement). The board and auditors surely have had many, many meetings and deliberations about the ‘issues’ and surely have a grasp on their complexity and validity (and, clearly, quantum).  Some media rushed to equate Steinhoff’s ‘collapse’ (those obituaries were clearly premature) to that of African Bank Investments (Abil). Bollocks! One was a classic run on a bank. Funding started to dry up and an underperforming loan portfolio was deteriorating quicker than management seemed to grasp.  This is different. Sure, there may yet be a deteriorating loan portfolio hidden in one of these alleged off-balance sheet entities. But Steinhoff is not a bank and it is not all that useful – for the man on the street or for unsophisticated retail investors – to equate the two. Abil’s only assets were the loans. Steinhoff has a number of sizeable operating companies across the world. Of course, the willingness of the banks to prop this all up will be crucial in the weeks and months to come. Some ‘experts’ on Twitter have been quick to question Steinhoff’s suppliers and customers. Would the former still be willing to supply stock to them? We shall have to see. Will the latter lose confidence and stop shopping with them? Those shoppers I saw at Pep and Ackermans this weekend could not care less. What’s been strange is how associated companies have been knocked too. Steinhoff Africa Retail (Star) – basically Pepkor, what’s left of JD Group and a chunk of Shoprite – is down over one-third in a week. Shoprite is down ±10% and KAP Industrial is down 12%. These are those with direct links to Steinhoff International (it is a major shareholder in both). Brait (related tangentially via Christo Wiese) has also been dragged into the mess, with a sharp drop on the Steinhoff news (it is down 18% over one week). The most bizarre move has been in PSG Group, which is down 13% over seven days! Yes, Steinhoff owns a 25.5% chunk of the group, but this is almost certainly the non-core asset, which it has identified for sale to help shore up liquidity. There is no operational link between the companies, plus it is an open secret that PSG Group chairman and founder Jannie Mouton was livid when Steinhoff bought the stake. The most telling was the final line of a Sens announcement titled Independence of PSG Group: “The board of PSG Group is disappointed about what has transpired at Steinhoff”. At a discount to the sum-of-the-parts of well over 15% at times in the past week – for no reason – why would you not be buying? EOH To be clear, EOH is not Steinhoff. (Neither is it African Bank!) We now know what caused EOH’s share price to plummet for ‘no reason’ last week. There was a reason (hint: there always is!): margin calls automatically triggered against leveraged director holdings. But, no one knew this at the time. So, panic. Add to those margin calls a toxic stew of: confirmation that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) had made a number of raids related to corruption at the South African Police Service, (unsubstantiated) rumours about some contracts being questionable, stony silence from the company itself and you had the perfect storm for the 45% intraday drop. Cue the experts in hindsight (‘I’ve long had doubts about EOH’)… Nothing about the underlying business has changed, however. Obviously, the derivative positions held by these directors – including the CFO, John King! – are highly irresponsible (a story for another day). But, this remains one of the country’s largest IT solutions providers, possibly the biggest. Turnover for 2017 was R15.5 billion, with diversification across IT services, software, infrastructure, industrial technologies and business process outsourcing, in an addressable market in SA of over R200 billion. Operating profit was R1.8 billion. You can be sure that Group CEO Zunaid Mayet knows that shoring up/restoring confidence is a major priority: ‘Reviewing governance, risk and governance’ is explicitly listed as one of his five key priorities since taking the top job. The unwinding of three acquisitions from November 2015, expedited given ‘recent media allegations relating to Mr Keith Keating’, is one positive step. So too is the appointment of ENSafrica ‘to conduct a full fact-finding review of the commercial activities of the three companies’. EOH states bluntly that ‘in keeping with the group’s zero tolerance commitment, it will act against any identified wrongdoing or misconduct involving any individual or entity’. Also, it says that any ‘material public sector engagements and contracts will be subject to independent oversight by ENSafrica’. These are arguably long-overdue. Was EOH overvalued at R160 per share? Probably. Is it worth R55? With Heps of 832c, that’s a PE of 6.5 and a forward PE of well under 5. You can make up your own mind. *** I’ve seen many things on the JSE in the last 15-odd years, but nothing quite like last week … this was not 2008 all over again. Panicked phone calls and messages from friends (and e-mails from readers) about whether or not to dump one or other share. And this contagion spread, with the result being those wild, unpredictable moves on the market during last week, continuing into this week. The events at Steinhoff and EOH are not directly comparable, save for them knocking confidence at both. I’m not making light of this issue, given that last week I made the specific point that, at its core, investing is about confidence. That means trust. Steinhoff may still implode – there is a real risk of this happening –  but any investor still holding right now or even buying, needs to be doing so with an appreciation of this risk. Barbara Curson summed it up brilliantly on Moneyweb in ‘Wiese faces his Waterloo moment’: “Time will perhaps provide the answer as to whether Steinhoff is guilty of building up a shadow empire of off-balance sheet companies, fraudulently overstating income, and hiding liabilities. Or, whether a gullible market has been fed misinformation? Neither outcome will assist investors who have lost a lot of money. The key lesson for investors remains that of diversification.” Steinhoff is not a run on a bank, neither is it Enron (Curson correctly rubbished this ‘assertion’ yesterday too). It is incredibly hard to ignore the noise in times of panic. It is harder still to do nothing.