SA is waiting with bated breath as the votes for a new ANC president by party delegates are counted at Nasrec in Johannesburg on Monday. The delegate votes will be counted manually by the ANC Elexions Agency and a new ANC president is expected to be announced on Monday evening. “The atmosphere is in such a way that delegates are saying that the Elexions Agency must not dare make mistakes [in counting votes]. They [the agency] has been under a microscope,” said minister of energy David Mahlobo, who spoke to reporters on the sidelines of the elective conference. “But we are hoping that by the end of today [Monday], we should receive results,” said Mahlobo. After months of campaigning by presidential hopefuls, court cases that have nullified provincial leadership structures and delays in approving the credentials of voting delegates at the 54th ANC elective conference, it’s down to two candidates for the presidency: Cyril Ramaphosa and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. The fate of SA’s future is in the hands of 4 776 ANC delegates, who started voting for their preferred candidate to replace outgoing party president Jacob Zuma on Sunday evening. Gauteng province, which has 491 approved delegates, was the last province to cast its vote on Monday morning.  The counting of votes is expected to be delayed by delegates in the Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma camp, who will likely ensure that the Elexions Agency has counted votes correctly. After the announcement of the new president, voting for the 80-member national executive committee, the highest decision-making structure in the ANC, follows. The race for presidency between Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma is expected to be tight, with delegates predicting that it could boil down to about 200 votes between the winner and loser. But nothing is a dead cert until the final outcome of votes is announced.  The winning candidate requires 2 380 votes to clinch the ANC presidency.  The ANC elective conference is a key event for SA’s political and economic trajectory as SA is saddled with public policies that are slow to be implemented, rampant corruption, economic growth that is expected to idle at 1.7% in 2017, unemployment that stubbornly sits above 25% and bruising junk credit rating downgrades. Market reaction Meanwhile, the currency markets appear to be optimistic about a Ramaphosa presidency win. Trading of the rand against the US dollar has been choppy, with the local unit strengthening by nearly 1% in intra-day trade (since 6 am). At the time of writing the rand strengthened to R12.95/$ on Monday at 12:54 – levels last seen on August 9 when President Jacob Zuma survived another no-confidence vote in Parliament. Market watchers said the local currency market is already pricing in the likelihood that Ramaphosa will be at the helm of the ANC.  Ramaphosa, the former trade unionist turned businessman who has also been SA’s deputy president for the last three years, is considered to be more business-friendly than his rival Dlamini-Zuma, the former minister of health, foreign affairs and home affairs and African Union Commission chair. Wayne McCurrie, the senior portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments, expects the rand to strengthen to R12.50/$ upon a Ramaphosa win but a Dlamini-Zuma victory might send the local unit to R15/$. Dawie Roodt, chief economist at Efficient Group, and George Glynos, chief economist at ETM Analytics, share a similar year-end rand forecast of between R12.50/$ to R13/$ if Ramaphosa wins. Roodt said R14/$ would be the extreme if Dlamini-Zuma wins, making her SA’s first female president if the ANC wins the 2019 national elections.