The ongoing fallout caused by the collapse of Steinhoff has raised serious concerns about the adequacy of the risk management policies and practices applied by the trustees of the GEPF. From the information available in the Annual Report of the GEPF for 2017, the GEPF held about 10% of the issued share capital of Steinhoff, with a fair value of about R28 billion at that date, says Petro Stemmet, spokesperson for the GEPF Monitoring Group. Taking into account the share price of Steinhoff on December 15, the paper loss for the GEPF on the Steinhoff investment is now in excess of R25 billion.  To put this in perspective, this loss amounts to about 38% of the total contribution income (from the employers and employees) the Fund received in the year to March 31. The loss also amounts to an equivalent of about 40% of the total adjustments to fair value (a downward adjustment of about R60 billion)  for the year ended  March 31. The extent of the loss is very, very significant to the GEPF, he says. There remain however, individually or collectively, other more significant concentration risks in the investment portfolio of the GEPF. As the prime example of this is the investment in Naspers with a fair value of about R162 billion at March 31. This investment comprises 16% of the issued shares of Naspers, notwithstanding from a corporate governance perspective that due to the capital structure of Naspers, control resides in a special class of a relatively small number of shares controlled, among others, by office bearers of the company. The fair value, at March 31, of the investment in Naspers alone amounts to about 24% of the total fair value of investments with a primary listing on the JSE.  This is clearly a very significant, and objectively speaking, excessive, risk profile. Extrapolating from the Naspers situation, it is clear in general that, due to relative size of the GEPF, it is too big to only invest the bulk of its funds in South Africa, without very detrimentally affecting the risk profile of the GEPF overall, as has now been demonstrated. The future retirement livelihood of members and pensioners have consequently been subjected to an unacceptable level of risk, and which will remain at this unacceptable level, or even increase, unless corrective action is taken. Bearing in mind that the GEPF, on the second page of its 2017 Annual Report as part of its Mission and under the heading of Integrity, states that it will “Not misrepresent or withhold information to which our stakeholders are entitled”, the GEPF Monitoring Group wishes to ask the following detailed questions relating to the management of concentration risk, and to which it expects an honest and detailed answer consistent with the stated policy of the GEPF as quoted above. “We also wish to refer to the huge amounts invested in state-owned enterprises. The exposure of the GEPF in the form of Local Bills and Bonds to SOEs amounts to about R136 billion, according to the Annual Report at March 31.  Of this amount, almost R86 billion is owing by Eskom alone. The exposure of the GEPF to these entities alone increased by almost R10 billion (an increase in exposure to Eskom on a fair value basis of about 12%), notwithstanding the clear failure in corporate governance at this entity over a number of years,” Stemmet says. The GEPF declined to comment on the specific issues raised by the Monitoring Group, however in a previous statement it noted that its investment loss, caused by the fall in the Steinhoff share, was 0.6% of the total GEPF portfolio on December 6 2017. Further, despite the fall, the total GEPF equity portfolio had created a value of about R140 billion over the preceding 12 month period, and had performed better than the equity benchmark.