With tinsel, reindeers and snowmen making their annual appearance in shopping centres, many of us are realising the year is nearly over and we’ve made little progress on our 2017 New Year’s resolutions. But take heart: if you check in on your financial health this month, you can still start 2018 on a stronger footing. An annual financial “check-up” is important because so many things can change in a year. Assess whether your financial plan, your policies and your money habits are still in line with your life goals, which may have shifted in the last 12 months. Whether it’s making sure your household insurance or life cover are up to date or reviewing your budget, follow this personal check list to ensure your financial plans meet your needs and goals, and make your money work hard for you in 2018. Review your spending habits Many of us started 2017 with good intentions to manage our money well, vowing perhaps to spend less on takeaways, open a tax free savings account or commute by public transport instead of by car. However, it’s all too easy to get sidetracked or distracted by other issues. So before you enter the festive season, take some time out to review your money habits and get back on track. Here are a few tips: Got a plan? Stick to it Personal financial management starts with drawing up a budget. However, as important as creating your budget is actually sticking to it. Using a budget will give you insights into how your income and expenses fluctuate over time. It will also help you see whether you’re making your money work for you or the other way around. To help you stay committed, follow these steps: Life’s a journey and goals are your pitstops Don’t wait until December to take stock. Before the frenzy of the festive season kicks off, sit down and consider your goals and the time horizon for achieving them. Short term goals could include paying off your credit card debt, creating an emergency fund or sticking to your budget. Medium term goals may be to save up for a deposit for a new car or home or helping your parents achieve an overseas trip, while your longer term goals could be saving enough for your retirement. Take some time out to reflect on your personal and financial goals and make sure you have the right plans and timeframes to achieve them. When life changes, update your policies If you’ve experienced any major life changes, like marriage or divorce, a new addition to the family or responsibility for a frail family member, make sure your policies are updated accordingly. It’s easy to get wrapped up in the moment of life-changing events and forget to make amendments that reflect where you are now in your life. Here are practical tips to make sure your policies are on track: Year-end gives you the opportunity to reflect and set up a review meeting with your financial adviser. If you don’t have one yet, today’s the day to contact an accredited financial adviser who can help you make 2018 a great money year.  Soré Cloete is senior legal manager at Old Mutual Personal Finance.