Naspers investors were not impressed with the e-commerce company’s plans to reduce the discount in the share price, which has swelled in the last year. The share price declined by almost 2% in trade following the company’s first investor day in New York on Tuesday. “The market will be disappointed that no immediate technical solution was offered to resolving the discount and this was reflected in Wednesdays’s underperformance of Naspers vs Tencent,” says Sean Ashton, CIO at Anchor Capital. Naspers’ 33% stake in the Chinese internet company Tencent is worth $158 billion with analysts valuing the Naspers group at $180 billion. Yet the company’s market capitalization is $113 billion, creating a 48% discount in the share price. “This is definitely a focus,”  Naspers group CEO Bob van Dijk told assembled analysts. Historically the discount was about 20% to 25%, but started to rise about 20 months ago when South Africa began to experience significant capital outflows. “Between $15 and $20 billion has flowed out of the country. We are 20% of the index and the most liquid stock, so we take a disproportionate share of that and it is painful,” he says. According to group CFO Basil Sgourdos, every dollar that leaves SA affects Naspers’ market capitalisation by half a dollar. However narrowing the discount will not be easy, Sgourdos admits. In particular the structural issues relating to its position on the JSE are cause for concern. “We must recognize there is a political context to this [the capital outflows] and we need to see how these things play out. So we need to be measured in how we think about this and the actions we take. We don’t want to make short term decisions that fix the problem but undermine value in the long run.” Steps taken (see the chart below) to reduce the discount include driving the ecommerce business to profitability, improving transparency and improving capital allocation. Future steps could include share buy-backs or additional listings. The continued lack of profitability in the ecommerce business is also recognised as a problem, Sgourdos says and management is heavily engaged in this aspect of the business to deliver better returns.    Source: Naspers investor presentation The biggest of these issues is the JSE and there “is no easy fix to the JSE problem. We cannot tomorrow leave the JSE and go to another exchange,” he says, adding that share buy backs are impossible because the company has little to no free cash available. The separate listing of individual businesses (but not divesting or unbundling) is on the table. “The separate listing of assets will force the market to apply a value,” says Ashton. “These will be those that are moving up their “monetisation curve” and maturing. Of the e-commerce portfolio of assets, I would suggest OLX is probably the closest to a separate listing from a life-cycle perspective, but I suspect this is also still some way off given that that its runway for unit revenue growth remains long.” Without immediate solutions says Sgourdis,  “the best way [to narrow the gap] is to show you profits, cash flows and invest capital wisely.” There are no easy answers but analysts were not satisfied with the replies. “We do not agree that the discount exists because of the outflows from SA markets. We believe that the discount is a direct result of continued investment in loss making businesses,” says Karl Gevers, CIO at Benguela Global. “The market is not convinced that Naspers’ capital allocation (apart from the Tencent investment) is disciplined. The only way the discount will close is if the businesses that they invest in start showing profitability, so far this has only been a promise, with results yet to be proven.” Naspers’ share performance over the last year has been purely based on the back of Tencent’s performance. In fact Naspers has underperformed Tencent by about 30% over the last year. “This is a clear sign that Naspers management is not doing a great job in allocating the capital. Unbundling some assets may help unlock some of the discount, but we believe management should rather focus on profitability of the “rump” to unlock the value,” he says. Monetising the e-commerce assets is absorbing a considerable amount of management time, with Flipkart, OLX, the food delivery business and payment solutions businesses showing the most promise. “At this point 77% of our earnings are from e-commerce,” says Van Dijk. “In time this will move to 100%. Our online business is growing faster than the traditional business, and even the traditional businesses are becoming more digital.” The classifieds business is now valued at $7.8 billion, is maturing fast and is delivering an internal rate of return of 29%; and the Indian e-commerce business Flipkart is delivering an IRR of 32%. However it is the food delivery business that is really cooking. Valued at $2.5 billion its IRR is 134% and it has enormous potential to scale, he says. This may go some way to appeasing investors who were concerned that the e-commerce assets ex Tencent were absorbing increasing amounts of cash in recent years due to their stage of lifecycle (hence creating losses ex Tencent). “Investors have become increasingly impatient with the pace of monetization,” says Ashton. “This appears to be moving in the right direction now.”  Source: Naspers investor presentation What seems clear is that the discount will not narrow in the short term. “I do believe that all the reasons which have increased the discount – in my opinion –  (such as increasing losses in core ex Tencent) should start to unwind. I think we can possibly hope for the discount narrowing by, say 10%, but I don’t see it going to 20% anytime soon – especially given their reiteration that the Tencent stake is going nowhere.”  