Tigon accused Gary Porritt will on Wednesday present arguments to the High Court in Johannesburg in a fresh bail application that might see him home for Christmas. Porritt was the CEO of then JSE-listed financial services group Tigon that collapsed around 2002. He, together with his co-accused Sue Bennett, are on trial on more than 3 000 charges of fraud, racketeering and transgression of the Companies Act, the Income Tax Act and the Stock Exchanges Control Act. Bennett was a director of Tigon and also his romantic partner, according to evidence before court. Porritt has been in jail since June 22, when the court ordered his arrest after he failed to appear on June 12 and subsequent dates. He alleged that he was too ill to attend court after fainting three times within half an hour on the night of June 9. After a lengthy inquiry into his health, including evidence by several medical practitioners who examined him, the court found that he could not have fainted in the way described and in fact had the intention to skip court. Judge Brian Spilg then ordered that his bail be forfeited and he be kept in custody. Spilg has refused Porritt leave to appeal that judgment, but he has petitioned the Supreme Court of Appeal in this regard. He has also filed a fresh bail application, which will be heard on Wednesday. Porritt states in court documents that new evidence explains the condition he suffers from, which caused him to faint. He states that doctors at the Chris Hani Baragwanath hospital have established that he suffers from postural hypotension – an abnormal fall in blood pressure when in the upright position. This, he says, could have led to him fainting and proves that he was not shamming as he argues, Spilg found. He was further diagnosed with atrial fibrillation – an irregular and often rapid heart rate that occurs when the two upper chambers of the heart (atria) experience erratic electrical signals. This condition could result in the forming of blood clots and increases the risk of suffering a stroke significantly. He describes at length how his medical condition has deteriorated since his incarceration, and prison staff treated him with disrespect because they assumed he was feigning his illness. He said that since he was diagnosed and started receiving treatment, his condition has slowly improved and nursing staff and wardens at the prison “completely changed their tune and treated me with care and consideration”. Porritt denied the allegations by investigating officer Sandra van Wyk on behalf of the state, that he has direct or indirect access to assets of more than R100 million. She argued in reply to his founding affidavit that the state has a strong case against Porritt and that the charges against him carry a long jail sentence. He has the means to forfeit bail and there is a strong possibility that he has assets stashed outside the country, she argued, asking the court to deny bail. This is in sharp contrast to Porritt’s claims that he has no money. Both the accused are unrepresented in the trial and claim they don’t have money to pay for legal representation. This has had a negative impact on the proceedings and Spilg has been at pains to make sure they are aware of their rights in the absence of their own counsel. Porritt says Van Wyk’s allegations are full of errors. She puts the cost price of certain properties at almost R11 million. That should be R6.2 million and is an overstatement of 43%, Porritt says. The municipal values Van Wyk quotes are R10.7 million too high and should be R34.3 million, he says. He denies that missing Progressive Systems College Guaranteed Growth (PSCGG) investor funds were unlawfully used to buy five farms and gives details of six different bonds that were registered to fund the transactions. Porritt states: “I am not worried about the state’s case. However, there can be no doubt that the stresses of enduring the criminal trial process for almost 15 years would cause even the strongest and most optimistic person to suffer mental anxiety.” The main trial has been postponed until January 29 next year. Advocate Christo van Schalkwyk SC has been appointed as friend of the court on instruction of attorney Frank Cohen. Van Schalkwyk will advise the accused in relation to the admissibility of documents submitted by the state and their rights and obligations with regard to the cross-examination of the State’s first witness, former PSCGG CEO Jack Milne.