Cyril Ramaphosa may be the new ANC president, but don’t expect the significant economic reforms the country so desperately needs until at least the 2019 general election. The big surprise of the ANC’s Top 6 election was the emergence of David Mabuza and Ace Magashule – two key members of the premier league – as the deputy president and secretary general of the party. This means team Ramaphosa and Team Zuma are equally represented in the Top 6 and this could leave the top structure of the ruling party virtually paralysed. It is highly unlikely that their policy perspectives and sense of moral responsibility are reconcilable. Add to this president Jacob Zuma’s recent contempt of the authority of the Top 6 when he merely informed his fellow ANC leaders of cabinet reshuffles: it sets the scene for serious infighting unless Ramaphosa leads from the front, from the beginning. The margin of 179 votes was razor thin but it earned him the top position in the ruling party. It is startling to think that if Team Zuma swayed another 90 voting delegates to support Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, the result – from an economic perspective at least – would have been much, much worse. (At a rumoured R30 000 a vote, this would have cost Team Zuma only R2.7 million.) Local and international investors, as well as business owners and other stakeholders of the economy, should sigh a sigh of relief. Ramaphosa’s victory, although not comprehensive, is the best news South Africa could have hoped for, and I am sure there will be many interesting analyses of his options in the weeks to come. Zuma not impressed But the most telling image from the elective conference was the reaction of total disgust by Zuma when Ramaphosa’s victory was announced.  It is even more surprising as he must have known the outcome of the vote before the announcement. The result also underlines the significant division within the party. It runs right down the middle and if the Top 6 cannot function properly in the near future, it may accelerate the inevitable split of the party. This split could be more severe than previous breakaways of Cope and the EFF that followed the Polokwane and Mangaung conferences. Markets relatively impressed The reaction from the markets was surprisingly proactive. The rand started to strengthen over the weekend to reach levels of R12.80/$. The currency did weaken on Monday morning to around R13.30/$, but strengthened to under R12.60 shortly before the announcement. It later weakened slightly, probably due to the performance of team Zuma.   Although team Ramaphosa did not take full honours, Ramaphosa’s win is a major blow to the Zuma faction with its aggressive anti-private sector sentiments. These stakeholders should however not expect the immediate introduction of pro-business policies; the status quo is likely to remain. His election will hopefully also instil some sort of accountability, and if he is also allowed to appoint Shawn Abraham’s successor, the process may be accelerated. The next few months will be very interesting and will provide some clarity. From a private sector and investor perspective, the injection of Ramaphosa to the top ANC position will at least arrest the current downward and populist trajectory of ANC and government thinking. But don’t expect an immediate direction change… a split in the ANC may be necessary for this to happen. Zuma has shown how powerful the position of ANC president can be, even when the Top 6 is divided. Hopefully, Ramaphosa will take the reins in a similar fashion.