As we head into what must be the most eagerly anticipated ANC elective conference, the stakes are extraordinarily high since the commonly accepted view is that the outcome is very much a binary one. On the one hand we have Cyril Ramaphosa, who has been very outspoken about addressing government impropriety, while being pragmatic in his planned approach to putting the South African economy back on track in order to provide much needed jobs and education. Under his guidance, South Africans have been led to believe that all will be ok. The other frontrunner is Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, President Jacob Zuma’s ex-wife and preferred candidate. Dlamini-Zuma has been
espousing a number of populist policies, which will undermine the economy and are therefore widely viewed as market unfriendly. The result is that many view the upcoming ANC elective conference as a boom or bust type scenario, depending on who takes over the reins at the ANC.  At Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Securities we do not see either of the above scenarios playing out in the immediate aftermath of the conference. Firstly, seldom does one see a politician follow through with his/her campaign talk. As such, much of what is being said in the lead-up to the conference is meaningless, until it is actually put into action. Secondly, this ship will turn very slowly and we expect to see sustained change coming through only in the coming years, as opposed to weeks or months. Therefore, whoever is elected may either pleasantly surprise, or just as easily disappoint the nation. Limited reaction expected on local equity market From a financial markets point of view, it is our base case that the local equity market will, by and large, move past the ANC elective conference with little fanfare. Looking at recent history, June 2016 saw David Cameron committing political suicide as he called for a referendum that he was not guaranteed of winning. And just a few months later, Donald Trump surprised the world by becoming number 45, as he is affectionately referred to in certain parts of the United States. Neither event was even remotely anticipated, yet the respective equity markets in those countries hardly batted an eye on receiving the news. The FTSE 100 Index fell slightly on the news of Brexit, but recovered losses within two days, and has not looked back since. Admittedly though, the UK pound did react negatively on the news of Brexit, and has yet to recover. Similarly, US markets reacted very favourably post Trump’s acceptance speech, much to everyone’s surprise. Unsurprisingly though, the now well-known Trump trade has all but reversed itself, as the market quickly realised that while speeches impact short-term sentiment, they have a limited effect on longer-term market and company fundamentals. Against this backdrop, unlike Brexit and Trump, it is difficult to argue that capital and currency markets are not pricing in the weighted average probability of the elective conference outcome. Therefore, in the absence of an unforeseen event with large immediate ramifications, we do not anticipate adverse market reactions in the aftermath of the conference. If media reports are to be believed, it would appear that Ramaphosa is in the lead. Judging by the recent strengthening of the rand, as
well as a number of SA Inc sectors (such as banks and retailers), financial markets appear to agree with this assessment. However, we know all too well that the secret voting framework allows for last minute scrambling and changing of minds, making a sensible forecast impossible. Three plausible scenarios Given the current playing field, we see three plausible scenarios in terms of who comes out victorious at the end of the ANC elective conference. The obvious Dlamini-Zuma or Ramaphosa victory are the most likely scenarios. But there is another potential outcome. If the stakes are viewed as being too high with a Ramaphosa or Dlamini-Zuma outcome, then a “compromise candidate” scenario is not out of the question. Under this scenario, Dr Zweli Mkhize could well find himself in the hot seat. He has been hard at work painting himself as the unifying figure within the top ANC echelons. Mkhize’s focus is on winning the 2019 elections, and in order for the ANC to do this, he will unify the ANC once more and put an end to divisions within the party, factionalism and the manipulation of the organisation’s structures. So while there may be very little hype around Mkhize at present, we must not write him off just yet. Completely unrelated to the above three scenarios, yet critically important to how the global investment community views the conference and the future of South Africa is the manner in which the conference plays out. There are bound to be disgruntled ANC members following whoever emerges victorious, and calls for the losing faction(s) to accept the outcome and support the new ANC president may fall on deaf ears. Rumours of the vote being influenced by ghost members, ghost branches and large swathes of money changing hands are already doing the rounds. Such an outcome may be viewed as largely undemocratic within the investment community and could potentially have a detrimental effect on both our capital and currency markets. We believe that the currency and bond markets are more susceptible than the local equity market to an unforeseen event at the conference. It is important to remember that the local equity market derives about 65% of its underlying earnings from outside of South Africa’s borders, thus dampening the correlation of the equity market to local political and economic effects. This structure is not dissimilar to the UK equity market, which has strengthened on the back of pound weakness. As a result, a depreciating rand following the conference may actually be positive for the overall equity market as rand-hedge shares do well in local currency terms, despite SA Inc struggling. As alluded to above, we do not foresee major currency or capital market knee-jerk reactions surrounding the conference. However, the possibility of currency and bond yield volatility cannot be completely ruled out. A negative outcome could be viewed as the final straw that breaks the ratings agencies’ backs (it is only Moody’s that we need to be concerned with), ensuring South Africa’s local debt downgrade to sub-investment status. Under such a scenario, one could expect some rand weakness, with bond yields moving higher and SA Inc shares coming under some pressure. In our view, this may create some buying opportunities. Positioning portfolios appropriately To position our client’s investment portfolios appropriately, we have taken the decision to reduce our exposure to longer-dated South African bonds in the multi-asset/balanced portfolios, while increasing our exposure to cash in both the multi-asset/balanced portfolios and the local equity portfolio. Alongside this, the portfolios have a large element of rand-hedge exposure built into them. As such, they will benefit in a weaker rand environment, while the overweight shorter-term cash position will offer a degree of downside protection. The risk to this approach is if financial markets react very favourably to the conference outcome, and we see a strengthening rand, bond yields moving lower and SA Inc sitting up. In an environment such as this, we would expect our local portfolios to underperform their respective benchmarks in the days following the conference. However, we believe the risk of missing out on some upside is more than compensated for by protecting the portfolios on the downside should markets react unfavourably for whatever reason. Needless to say, our base case remains that markets will move past the conference with very little fanfare. Under such a scenario, the cash will be deployed back into the market and it will be business as usual. Post the elective conference and in the lead-up to the 2019 elections, what South Africa desperately needs is a pragmatic, unified ANC
that sends the right signals to local and foreign owned businesses, and investors alike. If we can achieve such an outcome, then we believe that business, consumer and investor confidence will return just as quickly as it disappeared. And that is the ultimate outcome
we should all be hoping for. Andrew Dittberner is chief investment officer at Old Mutual Wealth.