The Standing Committee on Finance and the Portfolio Committee on Trade and Industry has called for an inquiry into financial malpractices relating to the repossession of houses and cars, and wants an end to the practice of auctioning homes below market value.  This is according to the committee’s recent report on Transformation of the Financial Sector. The release of the report follows public hearings held earlier this year, when the committee heard tales of homes being repossessed and sold at sheriff’s auctions for as little as R100. This was made possible by court rules which allow repossessed properties to be sold at auction without a reserve price. Read: Around 300 to take on banks in home repossession claim Responding to the committee’s recommendations, the government last week gazetted new rules of court designed to stop repossessed homes from being sold way below market value. The changes to court rules require the presiding judge in a repossession case to consider alternative means of settling the judgment debt, and whether the property is the primary residence of the debtor. This is more in line with international best practice. “The committees support the proposals made in the hearings that the National Credit Act (NCA) be reviewed to ensure that homeowners do not lose their homes easily when they fall into financial distress due to loss of income and other similar hardships,” says the report. “Consideration also needs to be given to the proposal that there should be at least a financial recovery period of 12 months to protect homeowners.” The inquiry will also look into abuses related to the National Credit Act, particularly the manner in which defaulting debtors are notified of impending legal action by way of the so-called Section 129 notice. The courts have had to deal with numerous cases where debtors had judgments issued against them because they were not notified of the banks’ intention to bring legal action to recover debt. The intention of the Section 129 notice is to give the debtor time to catch up on any arrears and so avoid legal action. The inquiry will also look into other claims of malpractice by the banks, including allegations heard at the hearings about the use of bouncers by some banks to intimidate customers to hand over cars without following the prescribed legal processes. Another area of inquiry will look at the alleged involvement of banks and court officials in misleading the courts in cases of liquidations, sequestrations, and repossessions, and the alleged manufacturing of fake court orders by lawyers. The inquiry will also look into alleged abuse of the Insolvency Act by creditors in instances where debtors are undergoing debt review. “This inquiry should lead to policy and regulatory changes,” says the report.  The committee also wants to establish a fund, with contributions from the financial services sector, to help consumers fight big financial firms in court. Due to high legal costs, consumers are at a disadvantage when having to litigate against large financial firms. “The committees note that although customers of banks and insurance companies may be protected by a number of laws, the cost of litigation and lack of knowledge does not enable them to defend themselves effectively in the face of litigation. While appreciating the financial challenges, the committees support in principle the establishment over time of a fund to provide legal professional representation to consumers in instances where they get litigated against by big financial firms. Such a fund could, over and above the industry Ombuds system, protect the rights of consumers.” The Conduct of Financial Institutions (CoFI) Bill will address some of these industry practices, particularly those relating to the repossession of homes and cars. In the meantime, decisive action is needed to curb malpractices. National Treasury has been asked to respond to the report within three months. The committee says it welcomed the court action, led by Advocate Douglas Shaw, against the major banks filed on behalf of about 250 applicants who seek damages for the auctioning of their houses far below their market value. “The committees note that Advocate Shaw has proposed a bill to address this. The committees will refer this bill to the Department of Justice and the Portfolio Committee on Justice and Constitutional Development for their consideration.”