The most recent Citizen’s Bribery Survey published by The Ethics Institute (TEI) has revealed that in the last year bribery has increased, with bribes relating to traffic and road offences at their highest. The survey, now in its third year, asked 4 962 participants, across five provinces, questions about their perceptions and impressions regarding bribery in South Africa. The main findings of the survey indicate that at least 37% of South Africans know someone who was asked for a bribe in the last year, and 24% of South Africans know someone who paid a bribe in the last year. Both these figures are a 4% increase from 2016’s survey results. Since 2015, however, 11% more people have reported that they knew someone who asked for a bribe, therefore showing an incremental upward trend. Source: The Ethics Institute, 2017 Bribery Survey Professor Deon Rossouw, CEO for The Ethics Institute, said that the standout takeaway from this year’s survey was that bribery was definitely on the increase.   “More people are asked to pay bribes and more people end up paying those bribes when they are asked to do so,” he said.    However, the report showed that 35% of South Africans have said no to paying a bribe at some point. This is 8% up from last year.   The survey also found that in South Africa, the top five reasons for bribery were avoiding traffic offences (39%), getting a drivers’ license (18%), getting jobs (14%), public services (8%) and the newest entry according to the survey is police or criminal charges, which is 7%. The report indicated that the first two most prominent bribery types are both road-related, which has obvious implications for road safety. Together, they make up 57% of bribes, up from 51% last year. Rossouw said the category of people who are most involved in bribing and soliciting bribes were law enforcers, traffic officers and policemen. They are involved in 45% of all bribes, he said. He said if we can sort out traffic related bribery, we might be safe on our roads. “People get away with driving irresponsibly, people get driver’s licenses without deserving those licenses and obviously they are a danger to others. So the first outcome, hopefully would be safer roads, otherwise more responsible road users that leads to lower road mortality,” he said. Value of a bribe  Of the 37% of participants who said they knew someone who had been asked to pay a bribe, 65% said that the bribe was paid. In the report the average bribe amount for 2017 was recorded at R1 548. Compared to 2016, which was at an average of R2 201, this is low and is even below 2015’s average, which was R2 005. Rossouw attributes this to the tight economy. “People simply can’t afford higher bribes,” he said. The distribution of bribe value in the report shows that more than a quarter of bribes reported (26.1%) were below R100. While 90% of bribes were reported to be below R5 000, an indication that very high bribe values in the everyday life experiences of private citizens are rare. However, Rossouw said since traffic bribes have grown, they form a bigger percentage of the total number of bribes. In more exceptional cases, the average bribe value for tenders was significantly higher than the amount paid for other bribe types. It was recorded at R82 282, while the cheapest bribe type was for traffic offences at an average of R205, which could be an explanation for why there are so many instances of this kind of bribe occurring. All other bribe types have averages ranging from R999 to R6 480. Source: The Ethics Institute, 2017 Bribery Survey Impact of bribery on South Africa “In terms of business climate, corrupt business environments are not investor friendly, it’s a significant barrier to the ease of doing business in the country. Given where we are with our economic downgrades, we really don’t need this as well,” he said.   South Africans’ perceptions towards bribes has a double effect. Given the corrupt entities and civil servants in South Africa, Rossouw said people might cave in under these circumstances because bribery is perceived as natural and “acceptable”,  while others might understand how serious it is and take a stance against it. He said if bribery stopped, we could expect to live in a safer and more just society. “Bribery stands in the way of justice being delivered in our country.” 