While we all like to spoil the ones we love, especially during the holiday season, overspending in December can create financial problems for you in the new year. Nedbank financial planner, Mohammed Nassuirio, offers some expert advice on how to spend smart this holiday season so that you can start 2018 on a good financial footing. The festive season is a time of friends, family, and relaxation and… sales. Lots of sales! All cleverly designed to separate you from your hard-earned cash. Add to that the higher than usual costs of entertaining and travelling, and the chances of having to cope with a severe overspending hangover in January, become all too real. Fortunately, there are a few simple things you can do these holidays to turn festive season spending excess into financial management success. Here are five of the top smart spending tips: Plan your festive season finances in advance. First take into account your household income and all of your expenses for December and January, then draw up a budget for your festive spending. Don’t allow yourself to be pressurised, especially by your children or close family, into spending more on festivities and gifts than you have budgeted. If you’re going to use credit, make sure you only use it on credit-worthy items. It’s a bad idea to buy groceries or drinks on credit. Also, when you do spend on credit, make sure you will still be able afford the payments should the interest rate increase in 2018, or if your financial circumstances change. Shopping on impulse is dangerous – especially during festive sales season. So, be sure to be like Santa and make a list of the items you’re getting and the stores you’re getting them from. Then set a time limit per store and get in, get the goods, and get out. And don’t be tempted to go into shops that weren’t on the list, no matter how tempting the SALE signs in the window may be.  Spend some time researching gifts options and, if things are more expensive than you thought they’d be, get creative and find alternatives that are cheaper, but more fun. Then make a list of who you’re buying for, what you want to get them, and how much money you’re prepared to spend on each person. Now, stick to it! One of the great things about the festive season is that it only comes round once a year. It pays to start preparing for next festive season now. It may seem odd to be thinking about the 2018 holiday season before the 2017 one has fully set in, but doing so is one of the best ways of ensuring you’re prepared next time around. You can do that by starting a savings account, shopping the post-Christmas sales, or even lay-buying big ticket items so you can pay them off over the coming year. While being smart with your spending over the festive season may sometimes seem like hard work, the resulting sense of financial freedom you will enjoy in 2018 will be the best gift you can give yourself these holidays.