Cyril Ramaphosa’s election as president of the ANC has had an overwhelmingly positive effect on markets. The rand strengthened from over R13.50 to the dollar on Friday to a high of R12.60, yields on 10-year government bonds came down from 9.2% a week ago to 8.7% as foreigners were net buyers, and the banks index on the JSE has surged over 13% since Friday. The positivity has however been somewhat tempered by the composition of the rest of the ‘top six’. Most notably, with David Mabuza as deputy president and Ace Magashule as secretary general, Ramaphosa will have to manage a team with very different ideologies. “Ramaphosa announced his election manifesto ahead of the conference that emphasised the need to renew the ANC and to grow and transform the economy – a positive from an economic perspective,” said Novare’s economic strategist, Tumisho Grater. “However, not all is completely positive. Commentary from political analyst’s caution that the composition of the top six may constrain Ramaphosa from delivering his reform agenda.” This appears to be the general consensus among local economists. In a statement, Prof Raymond Parsons from North West University said it’s clear that Ramaphosa’s election has had an immediate positive impact on sentiment towards South Africa. “Ramaphosa’s election as the next ANC leader at least now creates a possible favourable tipping point for growth prospects, stronger investment and higher job creation in ways which can make for a bigger, stronger and better economy,” Parsons noted. However, he acknowledged that the mixed composition of the party leadership will present a challenge. “These appointments reflect an attempt to unify the ANC,” noted STANLIB chief economist Kevin Lings. “While this can be seen as a positive development in terms of trying to ensure increased political and social stability, it increases the risk that key policy initiatives will be diluted or that the business sector continues to be plagued by policy uncertainty.” A number of economists shared this view, and Geoff Blunt, the managing director of BayHill Capital, suggested that it could lead to complete paralysis. “If people were looking for big changes from this election, which is what markets were hoping for, they will be disappointed,” Blunt said. “With no clear win for either the Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma or Cyril Ramaphosa slates, I expect to that the policy paralysis that we have seen will continue until one side ‘defeats’ the other, even post the 2019 elections. This elective conference was a choice to maintain the status quo of the entrenched elite within government, or replace it – so for now it looks like business as usual for government, which will not be perceived by investors, business or the rating agencies positively.” The confidence challenge Chief investment officer at Citadel Investment Services, George Herman, argued that Ramaphosa would need to act quickly, and decisively to avoid this kind of negative sentiment returning. “Ramaphosa has a small window of opportunity akin to the famous ‘100 days’ to prove that he is the catalyst for change needed in government,” Herman noted. “If he stumbles at any time during this embryonic period, he’ll be seen as a token rather than the strong leader needed and market sentiment will quickly turn against South Africa.” The new ANC president is therefore already under pressure. Lings pointed out that Ramaphosa’s manifesto clearly has the potential to lift growth and restore confidence. With world economic growth remaining positive, he said that South Africa should have easily achieved 2.5% growth this year or even more, and there is now the chance to achieve these kinds of rates. “However, there are a number of caveats to this,” said Lings. “These include the risk that Ramaphosa will be forced to compromise on some of his key initiatives to unify the ANC. Secondly, the risk that the formulation of policy details substantially delay the process of revitalising the economy. Thirdly, the risk that the deterioration in the state’s institutional capacity restricts the government’s ability to implement its own development initiatives. And lastly, the risk that the transformation policies take a lot longer than expected to provide a visible and material benefit leading to the surge in demand for outright populist policies ahead of the 2019 National Election.” Parsons noted that Ramaphosa has to lead the way in stabilising the country’s public finances, repairing key institutions and restructuring state-owned enterprises. “Confidence therefore needs to be restored in the SA economy,” said Parsons. “This could be cumulative, just as its decline has been in recent years. Therefore beginning the process of rebuilding confidence, with Ramaphosa now leading the ANC, will be half the battle.”