South Africa has experienced a boom in new exchange-traded fund (ETF) listings in 2017, and indications from the industry are this is likely to be sustained into next year. A relaxation of exchange controls and the likely emergence of new issuers will see a number of new products coming to market in 2018. One of the questions this raises is whether greater choice always serves the best interests of the end-investor. A key appeal of index tracking products is that they simplify choice since an investor can just invest in the market index rather than trying to identify a suitable active manager. So if ETF issuers are listing a whole raft of new products, doesn’t this contradict one of their biggest value propositions? The MD of CoreShares, Gareth Stobie, believes not. “Choice is generally defined as a good thing, because you create a competitive environment that stimulates innovation and pulls down costs,” he argues. “It would be terrible if you only had a handful of products available from only one or two providers.” He points out that different products can be used by different kinds of people in various contexts. “Some ETFs may feel a bit niche and particular for the average investor, but they wouldn’t be niche or particular to a high-end, sophisticated private wealth office that is trying to deliver specific solutions,” Stobie says. “So one shouldn’t assume that every ETF is being positioned for the everyday investor. Some of them are being launched with a particular investor base in mind.” Different exposures The growing number of ETF products naturally draws comparisons with the local unit trust industry, where there are currently more than 1 500 funds available to local investors. Many believe that this has over-complicated choice for the average person. “I’ll be the first to admit that things in the ETF market are a lot more complicated than they were a few years ago,” says etfSA strategist Nerina Visser. “But does that mean it’s going in the wrong direction? Not necessarily.” She argues that where there is a problem is when a number of companies come out with effectively the same product, such as a FTSE/JSE Top 40 fund or an S&P 500 fund. “That’s what happened in the unit trust space,” Visser says. “Everyone has their balanced fund and believes that they can do it better than the next manager. That’s where this proliferation came from.” In an ETF environment, however, the investor is even less able to differentiate between similar products. “An actively-managed fund can sell you the hope of better performance, but the ETF isn’t selling you better performance, so then what differentiates one S&P 500 product from another? Actually not all that much,” says Visser. Where the investor does benefit, however, is from ETF issuers that list different products that offer exposure to different markets. The choice is therefore not between one asset manager or another, but between one exposure or another – for instance between Indian equities or Japanese bonds. “While it might make your investment choice more complex, it offers purer investments,” Visser believes. “It also makes the role of the ETF strategist or advisor very important.” The head of Sygnia Itrix, Ben Meyer, agrees. “Investors have to do their homework a little bit more, and the role of the advisor and stock broker becomes more relevant,” Meyer says. “Way back when Satrix launched its first fund, people said you don’t need an advisor because you can just buy the Satrix 40 and you’re okay. Now, with having over 50 ETFs listed on the JSE, it might make sense to speak to an expert. The environment has changed.” Potential for growth The other factor to consider is that the ETF market in South Africa is still very small, and therefore still has extensive room for growth in terms of assets under management. “If you strip out commodity funds the ETF market isn’t even at R40 billion,” Stobie points out. “That is only 3.5% or 4% of the unit trust market, so there should and will be growth within that market in time. I have no doubt.” Part of the reason for this is that, until now, ETFs have largely been retail products used by individual investors. Offering greater choice creates new avenues that may be more attractive to institutional investors. “We are barely starting to scratch the surface with big asset owners like pension funds,” says Visser. “Financial adviseors were also not always sure how to use these funds. That awareness is growing and skills are improving in terms of actively selecting ETFs for a portfolio. So there are major distribution channels that have hardly been tapped, and the scope of products that could still come is significant.”