Rand traders haven’t been this nervous since the global financial crisis. Just days before South Africa’s ruling African National Congress elects a leader to replace President Jacob Zuma as party head, the rand’s implied volatility versus the dollar has shot up to levels last seen in 2008. The measure, based on options to buy or sell the currency, suggests traders are preparing for big price swings, depending on the outcome of the leadership battle.      A win for Cyril Ramaphosa, a former trade unionist who built a multi-million rand business empire before becoming the party’s deputy president, could spark a rand rally to below 13 per dollar, a level last seen in September, according to Rand Merchant Bank. Victory for his main opponent, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, former chair of the African Union Commission and President Zuma’s ex-wife, could see the currency test the record-weak levels it posted last year.  Traders should brace for “explosive” moves after the weekend, said  John Cairns, a currency strategist at RMB. The rand’s strength in recent weeks — it has gained 6.4% against the dollar in the past month — suggests investors are pricing in a Ramaphosa victory. That may leave the currency vulnerable to a selloff should Dlamini-Zuma win, he said in a client note this week.  “We suspect that the rand’s gains are going to abate and the market will be cautious going into the weekend given the decisive vote is due on Sunday,” Cairns wrote. “But this does not imply stability; in fact, the opposite as nerves get drawn tight.”      Although Ramaphosa has won most nominations from ANC branches, the outcome of the election is far from certain. Branch delegates vote in a secret ballot and may ignore their mandates. While it’s possible that a deal could be struck to accommodate members of both camps in senior positions, neither Ramaphosa nor Dlamini-Zuma are likely to relinquish their claims to the top job. It’s a near-certain path to the country’s presidency should the ANC win a majority in general elections in 2019. Feedback from investors suggests the rand could gain as much as 3.6% on a Ramaphosa win, but slump as much as 15% on a Dlamini-Zuma triumph, Cairns said. The currency declined 0.4% to 13.51 by 9:11am in Johannesburg after strengthening 1.6% on Wednesday. Read: Win for market’s darling in ANC contest may see stocks slump Here’s what other analysts are saying: © 2017 Bloomberg