When Steinhoff’s share price plunged over 60% on Wednesday after news that CEO Markus Jooste had quit, the immediate reaction was to check who would be most affected. Who are Steinhoff’s major shareholders, and which unit trusts carry the largest exposures? There is, however, another side to the story. And that is to ask which equity unit trust managers did not own any Steinhoff shares in their funds? The stock was, until last week, one of the ten largest constituents of the FTSE/JSE SWIX All Share Index and therefore hard to ignore. It was, in fact, one of the most held counters on the JSE. That’s not to say that every manager that didn’t include Steinhoff in their portfolios had identified that there were serious problems with its accounting. Some may simply have decided it was too complex to understand properly or that it wasn’t offering compelling value. Whatever the case, however, fund managers that avoided Steinhoff successfully identified that there was more risk in the stock than they were prepared to take. The beneficiaries of that decision will be their clients. Generating good returns is as much about which stocks you avoid, as which you buy. The list Checking which funds didn’t own Steinhoff is not quite an exact science, since the latest comprehensive portfolio information available is from September 30. It is possible that managers may have bought shares in the interim. It also requires cross-referencing different sources, which don’t always align. It is therefore possible that it may not yield comprehensive results. However, the list below shows, to the best of our knowledge, which local equity funds had no exposure to the counter at the end of the third quarter. This does not include funds of funds, since the stock selection would be made by underlying managers, or index tracking portfolios. The list also indicates instances where a manager did not include Steinhoff in its equity fund, but did hold the stock in one or more of its other portfolios. SA equity general funds with no Steinhoff exposure at September 30 Fund Exposure in other funds ABAX Equity Prescient Fund Yes Allan Gray Equity Fund Yes Allan Gray SA Equity Fund Yes Ampersand SCI Equity Fund No Ashburton Enhanced Value SA Tracker Fund Yes Aylett Equity Prescient Fund No BCI Enhanced Equity Fund Yes BlueAlpha BCI Select Equity Fund No Bridge Equity Income Growth Fund Yes Cadiz Mastermind Fund No Cannon Equity H4 Fund No Ci Alpha Fund No Ci Engineered Equity Core Fund No Citadel SA Dividend Equity H4 Fund Yes ClucasGray Equity Prescient Fund No Contego B6 MET Value Equity Fund No Contego B7 MET Growth Equity Fund No Counterpoint MET High Yield Equity Fund No Counterpoint MET Value Fund No Discovery Dynamic Equity Fund Yes Discovery Equity Fund Yes Element Earth Equity SCI Fund No Element Islamic Equity SCI Fund No Emperor IP Momentum Equity Fund No Fairtree Equity Prescient Fund No Fedgroup General Equity Fund No First Avenue SCI Equity Fund No Foord Equity Fund No GTC Absolute Equity Fund No GTC Active Equity Fund No GTC Value Fund No H4 Focused Wealth Fund Yes Hollard Prime Equity Fund No iCapital BCI Equity Fund No Investec Active Quants Fund Yes Investec Equity Fund Yes Investec SA Equity Fund Yes Investec SA Value Fund Yes Investec Value Fund Yes Investec Wealth & Investment Dynamic Equity Fund No Investec Wealth & Investment Equity Fund No IP Equity Fund No Kruger Ci Equity Fund No Laurium Equity Prescient Fund No Marriott Dividend Growth Fund No Melville Douglas Stanlib High Alpha Fund No MET General Equity Fund No Methodical Equity Prescient Fund No Momentum Equity Fund Yes Momentum Trending Equity Fund Yes Momentum Value Equity Fund Yes Momentum Value Fund Yes Naviga BCI SA Equity Fund Yes Northstar SCI Equity Fund No Novare Equity Fund Yes Oasis Crescent Equity Fund No Oasis General Equity Fund No Obsidian SCI Equity Fund Yes Old Mutual High Yield Opportunity Fund Yes Old Mutual Premium Equity Fund Yes PPS Equity Fund No Prescient Equity Fund Yes Prescient Equity Income Fund Yes Prime General Equity Fund Yes Prime SA Equity Fund Yes PSG Equity Fund No PSG SA Equity Fund No RECM Equity Fund No Rezco Equity Fund No Sanlam Select Focused Equity Fund No Sanlam Select Optimised Equity Fund No Sanlam Select Thematic Equity Fund No Sentio SCI HIKMA Shariah General Equity Fund No SIS Equity Fund No Standard STANLIB Equity Fund No STANLIB Growth Fund Yes Stonehage Fleming SCI Equity Fund No Source: ProfileData