South Africa’s largest retail banks have received between 1 500 and 2 000 third party agent appointments daily over the past week, as the South African Revenue Service (Sars) ramped up its tax collection efforts, a tax practitioner has confirmed. In terms of the Tax Administration Act, Sars Commissioner Tom Moyane may appoint a third party to withhold and pay over any tax debts due by a taxpayer. With regard to individual taxpayers, such third parties typically include employers, banks, investment managers, insurance companies, attorneys or any debtor that owes the taxpayer money. According to Marelize Loftie-Eaton, head of external tax reporting at FirstRand, data from the country’s largest retail banks show that there were between 1 500 and 2 000 third party agent appointments per day over the last week. One appointment is made for each individual client account. Yet, there is a risk that tax debts or penalties may not be actual debts due to changes in a taxpayer’s status or a Sars system error. Taxpayers need to ensure that the debts reflected on their statement of accounts or admin penalty statement of accounts for each tax type are correct. During December, many taxpayers receive bonuses and salaries are often paid early, and it is an opportune time for Sars to appoint employers and banks as agents to recover outstanding tax debt, she says. Loftie-Eaton previously advised taxpayers who were aware of outstanding debts to approach Sars and negotiate a deferred payment plan. It could become more difficult to get these plans approved during the collection drive until March 31 2018. According to Sars, taxpayers may apply to settle a tax debt in instalments where they are unable to pay the full amount, apply for the suspension of the debt where they intend to submit or have submitted a formal dispute or may apply for a compromise of a portion of the tax where this will provide a higher return to the fiscus than liquidation, sequestration, winding up, or other collection measures. Sars is under pressure to ramp up its collection efforts after the Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS) showed that tax revenue was expected to fall almost R51 billion short of the 2017 budget estimate for 2017/18 and the Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba, instituted a probe into the under-collection of revenue. Sars argues that the under-collection is a result of economic pressure. At the release of the latest Tax Statistics in December, Sars confirmed that it would likely have to step up its enforcement efforts where taxpayers neglected to settle their outstanding taxes. In response to questions, Sars said it had appointed third party agents in the past as part of the normal Sars debt collection process where a taxpayer failed to pay an outstanding tax debt by a specific due date. “After the engagement process has been completed, Sars debt collectors may identify and appoint any third party to pay funds in their possession over to Sars. “The number of appointments made vary on a day-to-day basis, depending on where the debt collection process is in each case.” It said Sars debt collectors followed a continuous engagement approach, which involved outbound calls, tracing of taxpayers and sending out notices to the taxpayers to inform them of the outstanding tax debt, and to clarify the debt position of the taxpayer. “Through these engagements, taxpayers are given an opportunity to either dispute the tax debt, make an application for suspension of the collections process, or make payment. Only when the taxpayer does not respond to the request to pay the outstanding debt, or does not dispute the debt, or does not apply for suspension of payment of the debt as communicated through notices, will a third party be appointed to collect the outstanding debt reflected in the notices.”