As investors continue to be buffeted by uncertainties in the market, the importance of an appropriate, disciplined and strategic investment strategy has become increasingly evident. Emotions are among an investor’s biggest enemies, particularly when faced with challenging and unpredictable events. Discipline and commitment to a long-term financial plan are vital and will eliminate many of the risks lining the path of any investor. As part of such a plan, a clear understanding of your personal risk appetite is essential in order to fully grasp the concept of risk. What is risk? Risk is definitely not just another pesky four-letter word. For most of us risk means the possibility of losing something. Risk, it can be argued, is the result of information that is incomplete or lacking. If we all had perfect foresight, there would be no risk in anything. To summarise, risk is: The Chinese written character for risk is a combination of the character for danger and the character for opportunity and this is probably the best way of thinking about risk, particularly in an investment context. Any activity that has an inherent danger often has associated rewards to compensate for that danger. For example, the risk of bungee jumping off a bridge is rewarded with the huge adrenalin rush experienced by the jumper. Therefore, we would expect there to be a positive relationship between risk and reward or, in investment lingo, between risk and return. So, the absence of risk equates to the absence of return and, similarly, without taking risks we cannot obtain returns. Manage your expectations Every investor seeking return – whether for retirement, further studies, preservation of capital or income generation – should really take the time to get to know and understand their risk preference, before they invest a cent. Once you fully understand how you view risk, you will know where and how much to invest and what return to expect. It will also enable you to manage your future expectations and expenditure. Risk means different things to different people. Most investors will agree that losses of a given magnitude produce a pain more acute than the satisfaction produced by gains of a similar magnitude. This is often the reason why investors feel overconfident and then expose themselves to the recent best-performing asset class or manager (probably at the wrong time) and remain leery of the worst-performing asset class or manager. Some investors are concerned about relative risk (underperforming a benchmark or target) and others might be concerned about absolute risk (losing money). Therefore, some investors might be worried about their real drawdown (maximum loss below inflation), others might want to minimise their portfolio’s shortfall to a benchmark and others might want to reduce their value at risk. Clearly, the definition of risk is extremely important and each and every investor should be comfortable with their risk preference. Setting a target In determining your risk preference, you need to carefully consider factors such as investment time horizon, type of investment vehicle, required market participation and future cash flow requirements. The goal or target set by the investor also plays a crucial role. The target can be set as inflation (wealth preservation), zero (capital preservation) or an absolute/relative value. Investors should consider the following criteria in determining their target and goals: Finally, investor’s risk preference will be influenced by the type of investor they are. Broadly speaking, investors can be divided into those seeking to grow wealth (mostly preretirement individuals) and those seeking to preserve wealth (mostly retired). At Citadel we pride ourselves on having a team of experts who are among the best advisors in the industry. These individuals are on hand to assist our clients in designing their financial road map while gaining a deeper understanding of their risk preferences. Most importantly, you can draw on the input of these experts to construct a bespoke investment portfolio that is actively managed and fully in line with your specific objectives and risk appetite. Maarten Ackerman is a Citadel Investment Strategist and Advisory Partner. This article was originally posted in The Citadel Investor 2017, and was republished with permission.