South Africa’s high-net-worth investors and the private wealth advisory firms that manage money on their behalf are being presented with a steady stream of offshore property investment opportunities. There is an appetite for these opportunities, as evidenced by the inward listing of European counters such as Hammerson, GTC and the Schroder European Reit – as well as the ongoing popularity of stocks like Intu and Capital & Counties. While there is nothing wrong with most of these listed and unlisted opportunities; in the case of unlisted – investors often find themselves minority investors in a syndicate, with few rights. In addition the investments are usually fully mature and thus the upside is limited says Eldon Beinart, CEO of Stonewood Capital, which specialises in providing global investment opportunities to high-net-worth South African families. With this in mind Stonewood (which is not the company associated with David Cosgrove and Kobus Kellerman) has developed a private equity-style property company that provides investors with an opportunity to invest a little earlier in the cycle. It partnered with Alchemy Properties (the developer behind the new Sasol headquarters in Sandton), in 2016 to create Stonewood Alchemy Real Estate (SARE). This is a Guernsey-registered company that is now pursuing $100 million (R1.4 billion) in US property investment opportunities. “Our strategy is to focus on properties somewhere between the development and fully occupied stage of the real estate lifecycle,” he says. “This is the segment of the market that we believe offers the most attractive returns relative to its overall risk profile.” The US healthcare sector is a focus and SARE has acquired meaningful stakes in Savanna House Assisted Living in Arizona and Bear Creek Skilled Nursing facility in Dallas, valued at R560 million collectively. Both investments were purchased through SARE’s two wholly-owned US LLC companies, the SARE Senior Living and SARE Skilled Nursing platforms together with their US-based Family Office partners. “We believe this offers investors, who have already made the decision to diversify geographically, an opportunity that is not correlated to equity markets and provides net cash-on-cash returns of 12% to 15% per year in dollar terms, provided they remain locked in for the duration of the five-year average investment horizon,” he says. SARE does not manage the properties but has partnered with companies that specialise in senior and assisted living and memory care facilities in the US, where about 8 000 people turn 65 each day. The skilled nursing platform aims to capitalise on the increasing pressure on the US government to contain costs in the healthcare sector, which absorbs $3 trillion from the fiscus each year. Both investment platforms are premised on the company’s strategy to invest in what it calls “pre-stabilised” facilities, properties that have already been developed but have not yet reached full occupation. Once these facilities have achieved stabilisation, SARE intends taking advantage of the strong demand for such properties from the US medical Real Estate Investment Trust (Reit) market. “In every category in the US – from healthcare to hotels – there must be 60 Reits,” says Beinart. “It’s a natural exit.” SARE has already identified its third investment property target in the US, which it expects to close during the first half of 2018. This moves the focus from healthcare to hospitality, in particular, extended stay accommodation. “These properties have proven to be extremely resilient, even in recessionary cycles, and continue to grow in popularity with itinerant workers and travellers,” Beinart says.