The ANC plans to announce a new party president on Monday after it has completed the process to adopt the credentials of 4 776 voting delegates at its national elective conference. The 4 776 approved delegates are lower than the 5 240 delegates initially expected to vote at the conference, which runs until Wednesday at Nasrec in Johannesburg.  ANC members have been locked in closed meetings to confirm the authenticity of voting delegates, which delayed the start of the 54th ANC elective conference by more than seven hours on Saturday and two hours on Sunday. Presidential hopefuls Cyril Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma require more than 2 300 votes to become the next ANC president, replacing outgoing Jacob Zuma. On Sunday, ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte unveiled the credentials of voting delegates, which has been plagued by numerous delays to its start and court cases that have excluded the Free State, KwaZulu-Natal and the North West delegates from voting for their preferred candidate. Duarte said there is nothing unusual about delays in confirming the credentials of delegates as  “we do it for the credibility of delegates”. She said voting  for the preferred candidates will start on Sunday afternoon and an outcome might be announced on Monday morning. The final list of delegates is as follows:  Source: ANC/Moneyweb As can be seen from the table above, there has been a substantial reduction in the number of delegates. The column “Total delegates” was the number expected prior to the conference. The column “Final” now represents those that have registered and are eligible to vote for the leadership of the ANC. It takes into account those delegates that have not arrived and registered, as well as those excluded as a result of court decisions leading into the weekend.  The total is some 9% lower than anticipated. Branches in KwaZulu-Natal, the Free State and the North West were largely disqualified from the voting process given court cases the nullified provincial leadership structures. These regions are Dlamini-Zuma’s support base.  The next issue on the agenda is the approval of the electoral commission and the amendments of the ANC constitution regarding the expansion of the ANC top leadership structure.