In October Coronation Fund Managers announced that it was reducing the fees on a number of its retail unit trusts. This was the second fee review the firm had undertaken in a little over two years. In July 2015 Coronation removed the performance fees on its Capital Plus and Balanced Defensive Funds. The firm has now decided to also reduce the annual management fee on these funds to 1.25%. This means that all three of its local multi-asset funds – Balanced Plus, Capital Plus and Balanced Defensive – charge the same fixed fee of 1.25%. Overall, this is commendable and good news for investors. Lower fees means that they get to see more of the performance that Coronation earns for them. It’s also clear acknowledgement from Coronation that even for an asset manager with its impressive reputation, fees are becoming a differentiator. Investors are caring a lot more about what they are paying, and there is pressure to bring them down. However, while Coronation is certainly moving in the right direction and the rest of the industry will have to take notice when such a big player acts, it is not quite the leading light it could be. Consider that boutique manager Perpetua also recently announced a reduction in the fee on its balanced fund. Until now it has been charging an annual management fee of 1.25% and a performance fee on top of that. It has however decided to cut this to a fixed annual management fee of just 0.65%. This is a huge reduction, and one that seriously challenges ideas about what active management should cost in South Africa. It demonstrates that there really is significant room for fees to come down. To be fair, Perpetua’s total investment charge (TIC) may still be higher than Coronation’s at the moment due to a range of other costs like auditing and administration. As a smaller manager, there are fewer investors to share these costs between and so overall charges may be inflated until more scale is reached. However, it is nevertheless significant that a fund with just R35 million under management is charging an annual fee almost half that of Coronation’s Balanced Plus fund that has assets under management of R93 billion. It’s also important to note that while Perpetua may have set a new benchmark in terms of competitive pricing, it is far from the only firm with a more attractive fee structure. The table below shows just a selection of smaller funds with lower fees than the Coronation Balanced Plus Fund. None of them charge a performance fee. South African multi-asset high-equity fund fees Fund Size Annual management fee Total investment charge (3 years) Coronation Balanced Plus Fund R92.5 billion 1.25% 1.76% Perpetua Balanced Fund R35.2 million 0.65% * 27Four Asset Select Prescient FoF R268.5 million 0.72% 1.61% Ashburton Balanced Fund R513.6 million 1.00% 1.37% Bridge Managed Growth Fund R1.4 billion 1.00% 1.61% Aylett Balanced Prescient Fund R353.6 million 1.14% 1.35% ClucasGray Equilibrium Prescient Fund R292.7 million 1.20% 1.75% Personal Trust Managed Fund R1.4 billion 1.21% 1.58% Source: Fund fact sheets *The TIC on the Perpetua fund has not yet been calculated on the new fee. It must be noted that there are, of course, many other funds charging higher fees. That doesn’t, however, detract from the significance of these firms that are competing with Coronation on price. The reason is that this shouldn’t be the case. The asset management business is all about scale. It does not cost significantly more to run a fund with assets of R90 billion than it does to run one of R10 billion. Coronation has all the size advantage. It should easily be able to charge lower fees than any of the other managers on the above list and still be enormously profitable. Yet it seems that there are other managers that are engaging more seriously with the question of what investors should be paying for active management, rather than asking what managers can get away with charging. Consider that Perpetua’s annual management fee is now lower than the 0.68% annual management fee on the Satrix Balanced Index Fund. That is a serious challenge not just to other active managers, but even to those offering passive balanced products. If Perpetua can sustain itself off these fees, then other managers have a lot of explaining to do to justify their costs. Some might argue that Perpetua could have gone too far, but given the acumen of not only the people directly involved in the business but the fact that it’s also an affiliate of RMI Investment Managers, the industry can be sure that this has been a very carefully weighed decision. It’s been taken and supported by people with a lot of nous and depth of knowledge of financial services. They will have very carefully analysed what is sustainable. And if they are proved right, other managers will have to respond. Investors will demand it. Given their position, Coronation and the other big players in the industry should really be the ones leading this move. At the moment, however, it is the smaller managers that are laying down the challenge.