A spike in cash-in-transit heists is leading to grave losses in human life while driving up the costs associated with cash.   Data from the South African Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric) shows a 43% increase in cash-in-transit heists from January to November this year, with cash losses also up 14% over the periods compared with the same period in 2006. Sabric would not disclose the exact number of incidents nor the financial losses experienced over the period. A tweet by Jacques Celliers, chief executive of FNB South Africa, put the figure at just under one incident per day by mid-October.  Doug Walker, managing executive for physical cash at Absa, told Moneyweb that the industry is seeing more than 30 cash-in-transit incidents per month, which, in line with Sabric data, was up 44% year-to-date compared with October 2016. “These crimes have financial consequences for the banks, with October 2017 year-to-date industry losses increasing by 26% compared to 2016,” he said. Sabric chief executive Kalyani Pillay, said a common modus operandi had been identified across incidents. “Large groups of criminals, heavily armed using automatic rifles, driving stolen luxury vehicles force the cash-in-transit armoured vehicle to a stop and use explosives to access the vaults on the vehicle. The result is a total write-off of the vehicle. “The violence used during these incidents and incidents where security guards are conveying cash between service points and the armoured vehicle, results in loss of life.” The organisation registered a 74% increase in fatalities, including that of perpetrators, while injuries increased by 32% over the ten-month period. Pillay said Sabric, together with the cash-in-transit industry, is working with the South African Police Service to address the scourge.   The incidents are driving up the costs associated with cash, some of which are passed on to consumers. “[The] costs to provide cash services are wider than just handling costs. Costs are generally passed onto the consumers through cash deposit fees or cash withdrawal fees – this takes into account the insurance, security, handling, funding in relation to holding of cash reserves, premise, industry, risk and transport costs. Many of these costs are incurred at every point that cash is stored or moved in the journey to the customer,” Standard Bank said. The major retail banks all told Moneyweb that costs associated with insuring cash have increased multiple times over and above inflation as the incidence of crime has increased, with some noting that they have absorbed as much of the costs as possible such that bank fee increases remain in line with inflation. Citing data from PYMNTS June 2017 Global Cash Index, Walker said 50% of South African consumers prefer to pay in cash and that the Sarb predicts a 6% compound annual growth in cash and coin circulation through to 2020. At the same time, a shift from physical cash towards electronic means of payment is being observed. According to Ryan Prozesky, chief executive of FNB Value Banking Solutions, the bank is seeing card-based payments exceed ATM withdrawals in the ratio of 60:40 by value, with card-based purchases continuing to growth in excess of 15% per annum by value, while ATM transaction values are growing less than 5% per annum.