It’s the festive season and the retail sector is booming with increased shopper activity. In the same vein, it goes without saying that criminals are also ready for the season. The recent spate of cash-in-transit (CIT) heists proves that criminals are geared up to get their hands on cash with their brazenly-planned attacks, and they will do so without any thought for life or limb. We are witnessing an unprecedented increase in violent armed robberies against retailers and the cash-in-transit sectors nationally. There is little doubt that our retailers, the cash-in-transit companies and the police services have to take this threat very seriously and change the way they deal with cash crime. Read: Almost 1 cash-in-transit incident experienced per day in 2017 The automation of the management of cash in the retail store has become a necessary and essential strategy in order to safeguard business continuity in the retail space. Although many transactions are concluded with credit cards or other electronic payment methods, cash remains the preferred trading mechanism for thousands of consumers, particularly at this time of year. Traditionally, there is an almost 40% increase in the volume of cash held on retail sites during December, compared to the average cash volumes during other months of the year. The combination of increased cash in circulation and the fact that we have an extra-long Christmas weekend this year, means that retailers have to be extra vigilant and proactive around managing their cash risks on site. The most important and effective way to decrease risk is by installing an automated retail cash management and payment solution that is robust and can resist the toughest of attacks.  But even an automated cash management solution needs vigilance and intelligent management practices to deter criminals. These include: South African retailers should trade in a safe and secure environment.  A festive mood encourages merry spending. Safeguard what you’ve worked so hard towards throughout the year – and don’t allow this to once again become a season to be jolly for our criminal underworld.  Richard Phillips is joint CEO of Cash Connect.