Investors got what they wanted in South Africa when Cyril Ramaphosa became the ruling party’s new leader on Monday, putting himself in prime position to be the nation’s next president. Now comes the difficult part. He’ll be hard pressed to turn around a struggling economy, avoid more rating downgrades and ease political tensions, according to AllianceBernstein and Credit Suisse Group. That means the rand will struggle to sustain the 13% gain that has made it the world’s best-performing currency in the past five weeks, they said. The rand pared gains on Monday after ANC officials at the party’s conference in Johannesburg announced Ramaphosa had beaten his main rival, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, by 2,440 votes to 2,261. It was 2.8% stronger at 12.7458 per dollar by 8:28 p.m. in South Africa’s commercial capital, after strengthening as much as 4% earlier, the most in two years. Yields on the government’s $1.25 billion of 2026 Eurobonds fell 12 basis points to 4.58%, a three-month low.  Earlier, South Africa’s local-currency bonds and banking stocks rose as investors awaited the election result, which came after the market had closed. The yield on benchmark rand bonds due in December 2026 had dropped 22 basis points to 8.94% and an index of bank stocks climbed 5.2% to a record. The difficulty of Ramaphosa’s task was underscored by the ANC electing members of the rival camp to fill half the six positions on the party’s top governing body, including that of deputy leader, which was won by David Mabuza. He is a supporter of the incumbent head of state, Jacob Zuma, whose administration is mired in allegations of corruption and mismanagement. “Ramaphosa’s election, in and of itself, is positive,” said Christian Diclementi, a money manager in New York at AllianceBernstein, which oversees $535 billion of assets, including South African debt. “But the mix of new leaders at the top of the ANC is not quite what the market would have liked. Ramaphosa’s win perhaps buys South Africa time to avoid further downgrades, but it’s difficult to see how that can be avoided altogether.” Ramaphosa, a 65-year-old businessman who has become one of South Africa’s richest black citizens, endeared himself to investors with pledges to carry out market-friendly reforms and curb corruption within government. Dlamini-Zuma unnerved traders with calls for “radical economic transformation” to redistribute wealth to the black majority, which they feared would lead to fiscal recklessness. “South Africa’s chance for huge change is here and Ramaphosa is in a position now to prove to the electorate and to investors that he can bring that change,” said Simon Quijano-Evans, strategist at Legal & General Investment Management in London. The rand has rallied since falling to a more than one-year low on Nov. 13 as investors priced in a Ramaphosa victory. It’s year-to-date carry return against the dollar has gone from negative to 14% in that period.  But the currency could slide as much as 15% to 14.50 per dollar by the end of 2018, according to the median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. And the premium of options contracts to sell the rand over those to buy the currency, known as the 25 Delta risk reversal, jumped 30 basis points on Monday to 3.15 percentage points, the most since October.  Ramaphosa have to contend with Zuma remaining on as the nation’s president, probably until the next elections in 2019. Days before the ANC’s leadership elections, Zuma announced that the government planned to subsidise university education for poor students — the kind of policy that has investors worried about burgeoning budget deficits at a time when tax revenue is falling short of targets. Africa’s most-industrialised economy expanded at an annual rate of 0.8% in the third quarter after emerging from a recession. The budget deficit is forecast to jump to 4.3% of gross domestic product in the current fiscal year, up from a projected 3.1%. S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings cut the country’s debt to junk this year, and Moody’s Investors Service warned it could follow suit. No wonder investors have dumped a net R19 billion ($1.5 billion) of the country’s government bonds since the beginning of November. “It is now about liberalising again, cutting red tape, improving governance,”  said Burkhard Varnholt, the deputy chief investment officer at Credit Suisse, which has assets under management of $1.3 trillion. “There is too much corruption and all of that needs to be cut, and then South Africa can become a darling of Africa investors again.” © 2017 Bloomberg