Bitcoin landed on Wall Street with a bang. Futures on the world’s most popular cryptocurrency surged as much as 26% in their debut session on Cboe Global Markets’s exchange, triggering two temporary trading halts designed to calm the market. Initial volumes exceeded dealers’ expectations, while traffic on Cboe’s website was so heavy that it caused delays and outages. The website’s problems had no impact on trading systems, Cboe said. “It was pretty easy to trade,” Joe Van Hecke, managing partner at Chicago-based Grace Hall Trading, said in a telephone interview from Charlotte, North Carolina. “I think you’ll see a robust market as time plays out.”      The launch of futures on a regulated exchange is a watershed for bitcoin, whose surge this year has captivated everyone from mom-and-pop speculators to Wall Street trading firms. The Cboe contracts, to be followed soon by similar offerings from CME Group Inc. and Nasdaq Inc., should make it easier for mainstream investors to bet on the cryptocurrency’s rise or fall. Bitcoin wagers have until now been mostly limited to venues with little or no oversight, deterring institutional money managers and exposing some users to the risk of hacks and market breakdowns. Proponents of regulated bitcoin derivatives say the contracts will increase market transparency and boost liquidity, but skeptics abound. JPMorgan Chase & Co chief executive officer Jamie Dimon has called bitcoin a “fraud,” while China’s government has cracked down on cryptocurrency exchanges this year. The Futures Industry Association — a group of major banks, brokers and traders — said this month that contracts in the US were rushed without enough consideration of the risks. So far though, trading has kicked off without any major hiccups. Dealers said volume was high for a new contract, even though it was tiny relative to more established futures. The trading halts took effect just as Cboe had outlined in its rules. Transactions stopped for two minutes after a 10% gain from the opening price, and for five minutes after a 20% jump. Another five-minute halt will take effect if the rally extends to 30%, Cboe said in a notice on its website. Bitcoin futures expiring in January traded at $17 930 as of 8:38am in London, up from an opening level of $15 000, as about 2 700 contracts changed hands. Bitcoin has gained 7.3% since late Friday to $16 791, according to the composite price on Bloomberg. “So far, looking at the contract volume traded, we believe that there is a decent demand and this is driving up the price of bitcoin,” said Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at TF Global Markets in London.  For now, Cboe futures account for a tiny slice of the world’s bitcoin-related bets. The notional value of contracts traded in the first eight hours totaled about $40 million. Globally, about $1.1 billion of bitcoin traded against the US dollar during the same period, according to Cryptocompare.com. Some people who would like to trade futures are having a hard time accessing the market because not all brokers are supporting it initially, said Garrett See, chief executive officer of DV Chain. Participation may also be limited because of higher capital requirements and tighter risk limits, See said. “We’re in the early stages here, and there’s not enough professional liquidity from the big market makers who can provide depth and hold in the movements,” said Stephen Innes, head of trading for Asia Pacific at Oanda Corporation. “It’s going to be a learning curve.” It’s been painful for investors stuck on the sidelines. This year alone, bitcoin is up more than 1 600%. The surge has been driven largely by demand from individuals, with technical obstacles keeping out most big money managers like mutual funds. The new derivatives contracts should thrust bitcoin more squarely into the realm of regulators, banks and institutional investors. Both Cboe and CME on December 1 got permission to offer the contracts after pledging to the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission that the products don’t run afoul of the law, in a process called self-certification. Not everyone is happy with the expedited roll out. Exchanges failed to get enough feedback from market participants on margin levels, trading limits, stress tests and clearing, the Futures Industry Association said this month. In November, Thomas Peterffy, the billionaire chairman of Interactive Brokers Group Inc., wrote an open letter to CFTC Chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo, arguing that bitcoin’s large price swings mean its futures contracts shouldn’t be allowed on platforms that clear other derivatives. Still, Interactive Brokers is offering its customers access to the futures, with greater restrictions. The firm’s clients won’t be able to go short, and Interactive’s margin requirement, or how much investors have to set aside as collateral, will be at least 50%. That’s a stricter threshold than both Cboe’s and CME’s. The start of futures trading is an important milestone for bitcoin’s shift from the fringes of finance toward the mainstream, but it could be some time before the cryptocurrency becomes a key part of investor portfolios — if it ever does. “You never say never,” David Riley, who helps oversee $57 billion as head of credit strategy at BlueBay Asset Management in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “But I do think we’re quite some way from making cryptocurrencies even a relatively small part of some of the funds we manage at the moment.” © 2017 Bloomberg 