Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today. Holiday cover The House is set to vote on a stripped-down funding plan which would avert a government shutdown in the coming days. The measure, which would only extend financing of federal spending until January 19, is designed to give lawmakers a chance in the new year to hash out a longer-term spending plan. To stop automatic cuts to Medicare and other programs from taking effect, President Donald Trump may not sign the tax overhaul legislation until January 3 .   What’s next Republicans are now looking for their next legislative target after the victory on taxes. House Speaker Paul Ryan sees a chance to build on the momentum to recast the country’s welfare programs, while some of the president’s advisors are prioritising a less-controversial infrastructure spending plan. Front-and-center for most Republican lawmakers next year will be the mid-term elections, and with the tax bill seemingly less popular among voters than hoped, the infrastructure plan may prove the easier sell.  Gone Green UK Prime Minister Theresa May suffered another blow late yesterday when her effective deputy, Damian Green, resigned after he was found to have made misleading statements to investigators. He becomes the third member of her cabinet to quit since the beginning of November. The prime minister is in Poland today as she seeks allies in the EU ahead of the second round of Brexit negotiations. There she may find a sympathetic ear, as the Polish government was on the EU’s naughty step yesterday for controversial judicial reforms in the country.  Markets ready for vacation Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2%, while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.1% higher in thin trading after the Bank of Japan held monetary policy unchanged. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was unchanged at 5:50am Eastern Time as volumes remain low ahead of the holiday break. S&P 500 futures climbed 0.1%, the 10-year Treasury yield was at 2.484% and was broadly unchanged.  Coming up… At 8:30am initial jobless claims data is expected to show an increase to 233 000 for the week. At the same time the third reading of third-quarter US GDP is published. The big event for markets today is in Europe, where the outcome of a critical regional election in Catalonia is being closely watched for a repeat of earlier independence calls. © 2017 Bloomberg