It’s now official: Cyril Ramaphosa and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma will go head-to-head for the ANC presidency when voting by approved delegates begins on Sunday evening. Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma, who accepted nominations for the role of ANC president to replace outgoing Jacob Zuma, received 1 469 and 1 094 nominations from branches respectively. The nominations for candidates started after the ANC completed the process to adopt the credentials of 4 776 voting delegates at its 54th national elective conference in Nasrec, Johannesburg on Sunday. The winning candidate needs 2 380 votes to clinch the ANC presidency.  Delegates have predicted that it could boil down to about 200 votes between the winner and loser. But nothing is a dead cert until the final outcome of votes is announced.  Read: ANC adopts voting delegates The nomination of ANC top leadership structures was delayed for more than five hours as the credentials of voting delegates had to be approved. The ANC will announce its new party president on Monday. The position of deputy president is down to two candidates: David Mabuza, the premier of Mpumalanga, who received 1 128 branch nominations, and Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu, who received 619 nominations. In a shocking move, presidential hopeful and current ANC Treasurer-General Zweli Mkhize declined nomination for deputy president. Mkhize was often tipped as the ANC’s dark-horse candidate in the race for party president. Naledi Pandor, the Minister of Science and Technology, joined Mkhize in declining nomination for deputy president. Other nominations for ANC positions are: ANC Secretary-General: former KwaZulu-Natal premier Senzo Mchunu and Free State premier Ace Magashule. Deputy Secretary-General: the present ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte and Cosatu deputy president Zingiswa Losi. Treasurer-General: Gauteng ANC chairperson Paul Mashatile, International Relations and Cooperation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane. Mokonyane declined the nomination. National chairperson: Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa and ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe.