While many economists began 2017 thinking that the global economic recovery may be peaking, growth has in fact gotten stronger. This year has been one of a synchronised global upswing in economic activity across the US, Europe, Japan and emerging markets. Speaking on a conference call on Wednesday, Schroder’s chief economist, Keith Wade, pointed out that their global economic indicator continues to improve, which has been both surprising and encouraging.  “Consensus economic forecasts are also continuing to move upwards,” said Wade. “It’s a pretty encouraging picture.” His positive sentiment around the global economy is supported by the world’s largest asset manager, BlackRock. In an investment note this week, BlackRock argued that the current global economic expansion may last for longer than many people are expecting. “When growth is only slightly above trend, economies can run beyond potential for a long time before peaking, our analysis shows,” BlackRock said. “And plenty of spare capacity in parts of Europe means the developed world as a whole still has a hefty output gap. This suggests to us that the remaining time to this cycle’s peak is likely years, not quarters.” The firm therefore expects companies to continue to deliver earnings growth, with consequently positive returns from equities. Geopolitical risk is still a factor The caveat, however, would be that the world still faces a number of geopolitical risks. “They range from North Korea’s nuclear programme and missile launches to proxy wars between Saudi Arabia and Iran,” BlackRock noted. “Our evolving BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator (BGRI), which tracks how often our top 10 political risks are mentioned in media and brokerage reports, is running at elevated levels.”  In a conference call Oxford Analytica suggested that risk of war on the Korean peninsula is higher than at any time it has been since the armistice was signed in 1953. It also suggested that there remains a risk that the US could clash militarily with Iran if relations deteriorated significantly and that would cause extreme instability in the Middle East. Schroder’s Wade however noted that despite this environment of heightened risks, the political environment actually had very little impact on markets in 2017. “Donald Trump and Brexit were both big concerns of markets before the year started, but haven’t had the impact that was expected,” he said. “Brexit still rumbles on, but the arrival of Macron in France and the results of the Dutch election meant people have not turned away from the European Union. And in many ways some of that political risk associated with Donald Trump has turned around and become a tailwind for markets. We haven’t seen negative things like protectionist measures or tariffs on China.” Next year may produce something similar. The risks are certainly high, but it will take a serious political event to actually dent the outlook. Schroders anticipates global growth to remain above 3% both for 2018 and 2019.  “We believe we will get another year of good growth next year,” said Wade. “The cyclical factors coming through will outweigh structural headwinds for the next few years.”