President Jacob Zuma used his last address as ANC President to reiterate populist talk of fast-tracking radical socio-economic transformation for inclusive growth and changing the ownership patterns of the economy. Zuma called for the redistribution of land using more laws, reducing unemployment and inequality through the implementation of public policies, and encouraging the private sector to invest in SA.   Although radical socio-economic transformation has been the hallmark of the ANC’s public policies, some party members have used it to score political points and to amplify slow racial transformation in key sectors of the economy. The ANC has changed tack as it has moved its focus from radical economic transformation to radical socio-economic transformation. While definitions remain vague, its seems the nub of it is a more inclusive economy. The move to radical socio-economic transformation is about making “fundamental changes in the structure, systems, institutions and patterns of ownership, management and control of the economy in favour of all South Africans”, said Zuma. Zuma opened the official start of the ANC’s 54th elective conference in Nasrec, Johannesburg on Saturday, where his successor will be elected by the governing party.  The most important task for the ANC is to achieve inclusive growth as SA suffers from extreme income inequalities, deep poverty and high levels of youth unemployment, said Zuma.  His call for the economy to be more inclusive garnered loud applause from the more than 5 000 delegates that attended the ANC’s elective conference on Saturday. The ANC’s conference is not only about electing a new leader but also adopting public policies that were proposed at the governing party’s policy conference held in June. The ANC’s focus on transforming the economy has been met with scepticism by market watchers given public policies that are proposed but are saddled by slow implementation including the National Development Plan, a 2030 plan that promises economic growth of 5%. Also, transformation without meaningful economic growth is self-defeating.  Zuma said the NDP is the adopted ANC policy and various government departments are implementing it. “We must tread carefully because of the serious economic challenges facing our country. Improved policy implementation, which must be a key focus in this conference, will improve employment and investment outcomes,” said Zuma.  But political ructions and policy uncertainty has sunk the economy, as economic growth idles at 1.7% in 2017, inching towards 2% in 2018 and unemployment sits stubbornly above 25%. Market watchers have argued that in order for the government to make a dent in high unemployment levels, the economy would have to grow by 5%. Radical socio-economic transformation can be realised through the land reform programme as the government has moved from the willing buyer-willing seller model to a just and equitable model that Zuma believes will fast-track landownership. He said a new expropriation bill was drafted, a valuer-general office has been set up to determine the price of land and land audits have been launched to determine how much land is owned by the state.  Access to higher education also received special mention. Hours before his speech, Zuma defied the National Treasury and Heher Commission of Inquiry by announcing free-higher education for poor and working-class undergraduate students. Read: How Zuma defied National Treasury and Heher inquiry by announcing free-higher education  Zuma said free higher education is expected to improve the socio-economic conditions of the populace. State regulation Zuma said the state must play a strategic role in directly investing in underdeveloped areas and directing private sector investments, using strategic levers that are available including regulation, budgeting and procurement. Zuma hopes that using regulations, his government will be able to use state buying power to empower small enterprises, rural and township enterprises, designated groups and to promote local industrial development. Zuma used his address to lay into the private sector citing collusions and cartel accusations that have plagued SA’s banking, healthcare and construction sectors in recent years. He said the private sector was corrupt as the government.  “Corruption in the private sector is treated with kid gloves, as it’s referred to as ‘accounting irregularities’ when the private sector is accused of corruption. Corruption in the private sector is as bad as in government.” He called on SA’s law enforcement agencies to prosecute wrongdoers in the private and public sector.