One of the biggest challenges for wealth advisers in 2017 is how to develop a retirement income strategy to help retirees weather expected lower returns and uncertainty from global investment markets.Lower investment returns equates to lower investment values, which means retirees have less to live on and possibly leading them to be more stressed in retirement, when they should be enjoying life.Consistently, I have discussions with investors, particularly with retirees, looking for solutions on lower-risk high returning investments. It is critical at a time like this, characterised by global macro uncertainty, to make sure you have a high degree of conviction in the investment strategy, and perhaps move to a more diversified strategy. The portfolio should be structured to produce stability in times of instability and I think this is going to be important in the year ahead. The starting pointReview your current income sources and expenses to determine the degree of flexibility in your spending needs. This will go a long way in formulating decisions around the strategy that s best for you.There are many ways to suggest how to generate an income from your investments. The two most popular are the &#8220;rand&#8221; amount linked to inflation and the &#8220;percentage&#8221; of investment rule.The rand linked to inflation strategy is exactly that; you select the actual rand amount you require or like to spend each month and increase that amount annually in line with inflation. My preference is the well-known 4% drawdown rule. It is one of the best ways to tell how much monthly income you can generate from R1 million invested without having to worry about outliving your retirement savings.This research is based on American retirees over more than 50 years of analysing how long their money would have lasted had they invested in a balanced portfolio of shares, bonds and cash. The general finding was that retirees ran out of money in 30 years.South Africans using the 4% drawdown rule should be more conservative in their income drawdown selection, because we operate in a much higher inflationary environment fraught with stock market volatility, low interest rates and high volatility in our currency, making it more difficult to achieve the required targeted return.Some people who think they will retire with R5 million will be surprised to learn they can only have R16 666 per month in their first year to cover all their living expenses. If inflation ran in line with the historic ten-year averages of 6.3%, your capital value will slowly erode.However, going forward things may not play out like the past; runaway inflation, another global recession or a political crisis could diminish your &#8220;rand&#8221; value as well as the returns, causing retirees to deplete funds more quickly.Graphic illustration: A 65-year-old retiring on R5 million, requiring R35 000 per month (linked to inflation) to meet living expenses. Understanding risk on the investments, will have the following outcome:&nbsp;&nbsp;One of the greatest threats your investment faces today (apart from being underfunded) is erosion of your buying power by inflation. It is critical to understand the nature of long-term risk versus return calculations that are necessary for securing a lengthy and prosperous retirement.Alan Heyman is wealth adviser at Sasfin Wealth