Are investors becoming complacent?It might seem like a strange question given the huge rally we ve had since President [Donald] Trump won the US election last year. Also let s not forget the investing trends of the last few years and the staggering equity moves since the Great Financial Crisis of 2008. The Dow has passed 20 000 for the first time ever and the Nasdaq closed last night at an all-time high. Investors are piling into stocks and emerging markets are back to seeing record inflows. Not to forget the VIX, Wall Street s fears gauge, which is now sitting at 11%, the lowest in decades. I am a father of two boys, and if there s one thing I ve learned as a parent, it s to be on my guard when children are too quiet. When there s no noise, some kind of trouble is in the offing. Lately, I ve had the same kind of feeling about the stock market. The US market just experienced one of the most peaceful starts to the year in as long as I care to remember. In 25 years of trading I m used to seeing quiet periods, but this level of tranquility is extraordinary. As of Wednesday s close, the Standard and Poor s 500 hadn t exceeded a daily trading range of more than 1% for 37 consecutive days, making this the longest run of low volatility of this type, going back to 1974, according to Thompson Reuters data. There is just too much complacency in the market and this super-low volatility is simply not sustainable.But people ignore complacency at their peril and if history is a guide you might want a quick walk down memory lane. Does anyone remember Blockbuster? Ironically, what initially made Blockbuster the champion of the movie rental industry was its innovative use of technology. Blockbuster s up-to-the-minute inventory system helped the company optimise its offerings and it wasn t long before it was putting mom and dad movie rental stores out of business. But then Netflix came along.The movie by mail service, and later movie online service, gave customers the convenience they wanted at a price that blew Blockbuster away. Instead of acknowledging the changing way consumers wanted their entertainment, Blockbuster remained attached to their weakening business model. Six years after Netflix launched, Blockbuster finally decided to test-drive the popular movie by mail model, but it was too late. Stores closed, and ultimately Blockbuster was bought out of bankruptcy court by satellite television provider, DISH. Leader complacency did a killer on Blockbuster.Which brings me back to the current complacency in the market. The market by historical norms is not cheap, in fact it s expensive. The S&amp;P spends a lot less time at price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios above 20 as it does below. At today&#8217;s average P/E of 28 and plus, prices have a long way to fall when a return to historic averages occurs.And everyone has the same trade on. Trades, mind you, that anticipate the recent Goldilocks era of historically-low volatility and historically-high stock prices will continue unabated for the foreseeable future.And when you get those crowded trades and the squeeze happens in an unprepared market, it normally doesn t end well.On that note, I ll leave you with a quote from market legend, Sir John Templeton;&#8220;Bull markets are born on pessimism, grow on skepticism, mature on optimism and die on euphoria.&#8221; And don t forget to keep your eyes on the kids.Nicholas Kunze is with Consilium Group