RYK VAN NIEKERK: We are talking markets again and my guest today is Murray Winckler, he is the co-founder and a portfolio manager at Laurium Capital. Murray, welcome to the show, let s start with what many people think is one of the developments that would have the most profound impact on markets this year and that is Donald Trump. The markets have reacted surprisingly positive since his election but he has been in office for only two weeks and it has been a busy two weeks. What do you expect of him, do you think he will be able to move the market in any significant way this year?MURRAY WINCKLER: Yes, he s going to cause a lot of volatility I think in markets. As you say, over two weeks he s come out with a couple of clangers, he s upset a lot of people and I m sure in the coming months there is going to be a lot of angst around trade policies, international relations, he s having a go at Iran at the moment, as we saw the impact on MTN on Friday. I think he s pretty pro-business and I think probably over time fiscal stimulus will end up being relatively good over the next 12 to 24 months for the US. So if he does 75% of what he says he does and if he doesn t upset too many people but there are a lot of risks around that we ll probably see some pretty decent growth coming out of the US and the strength in the dollar will probably continue as we move forward in the next 12 to 18 months.RYK VAN NIEKERK: So you expect a stronger dollar. One of the arguments is that if he follows through with the protectionist policies it would increase the costs of American business and impact on earnings. Do you think that s a significant concern or are there other factors that would outweigh it?MURRAY WINCKLER: I think if we look at what s going on in the US at the moment, if you look at industrial production and purchasing manager surveys at the end of last quarter, the numbers are quite good. There s a decent pickup in the US and growth this year will be quite good, inflation probably 1.5% or so. So the economy was recovering reasonably well, hence, rates moving up, now you chuck Trump on top of this and he plans this big fiscal stimulus.There are a lot of comments out there, if he does, coming back to 75%, what he is saying on the fiscal side, you could probably add up to 2% per annum growth on top of existing growth. So it could be quite big by the time you get into next year, which means rates go up a little bit quicker as well. Then the big thing is if he drops tax rates and forces a lot of the internationals to bring their cash home, that cash coming back home and tax rates being dropped will have a big impact and I think that s why you could see the dollar, in that environment, relatively strong.I think then the big risk is what happens on trade policy with China because China obviously has a lot of surplus dollars invested into T-Bills in the US. So that s a big unknown, how that dynamic plays out. So overall on the political side there is a lot of risk with him in power but if he doesn t upset too many people, I think you will see better growth coming out of the US and we still think the dollar could quite easily be by the end of the year, our best guess and I say it s a guess because we can t forecast currencies, but probably somewhere close to parity by the end of the year and that s dollar-euro, which is sitting at the moment at about 1.07.RYK VAN NIEKERK: If you have R1 million, which you don t need for ten years, would you put it in the US market?MURRAY WINCKLER: I guess it all depends on where all your investments are, so how much in South Africa, how much offshore, which markets. I think the US market, the S&amp;P 500, which probably represents 45% of the total markets in the world, so that s a good benchmark for global. You could go MSCI World but maybe going the US market. We re in the eighth year of a bull market in the US and returns have been pretty good. So going forward in the next ten years I think returns out of the US are going to be pretty modest and if you work on maybe a 5% total return in the next ten years, that sort of range, 5% to 7% is what you ll maybe get out of the US. Equities definitely look a lot better to us than bonds over the next ten years but bear in mind returns from equities, I think going forward in the next ten years, are going to be relatively modest compared to the last ten years.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Let s look at the local market, apart from the Trump factor, we also have local political developments and it will be a potentially explosive political year in South Africa, what are your views on the local market?MURRAY WINCKLER: Our market for the last three years has really gone nowhere, if you add dividends in total returns probably somewhere around 3% compound return per year, it s been less than cash. Where we stand at the moment from an economic point of view on the positive side is the economy growth rate last year has bottomed at around 0.5%. This year with the drought, commodities improving, we think growth is going to be perhaps even as high as 1.5% this coming year. Possibly by the end of the year with inflation coming down, food inflation in particular, we could see rate cuts fourth quarter this year, albeit modest, or early into next year. So the economic cycle is turning, which is quite good. Consumers are under a lot of pressure in South Africa and I think we ll see it in a lot of retail results coming through in the next six months. Insurance companies are really struggling and banks as well.But once a cycle bottoms the market tends to look 12 to 18 months forward and with rates coming down, I think that the outlook is definitely a lot more bullish this year than it was last year for markets. The other thing to remember is that probably 55% of the South African index is actually international shares, so a lot depends on what the internationals do; Naspers is very important, Richemont, British American Tobacco, so you need to be very aware of that. But pure domestic South Africa, which is the banks, insurance, retailers, domestic industrials, I think the outlook over the next 18 months is a lot better and valuations have also come back quite a bit, particularly the retailers last year under quite a lot of pressure, banks on ten times multiples. So I think the outlook definitely looks fairly decent and we think cash rates are quite high at the moment, I guess you can get a money market fund at 8% or so but I think that equities are going to do quite a lot better over the next 12 to 18 months relative to cash.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Just returning to your remark regarding international shareholding, last year we saw a significant outflow, especially from equities from foreigners, in January that trend seemed to have continued, are you worried about foreigners taking money out of South Africa?MURRAY WINCKLER: Absolutely, that s right. Last year we had bond inflows, so everyone playing the carry trade and then equities saw a lot of negative outflows. There were some distortions in those numbers, I can t remember exactly what it was but it was probably over R100 billion or so net out. Things like SAB delisting, so some of the internationals held the money here going out and distorted the numbers a bit.Then we had a lot of flows out of EM, which we correlate very closely to and we were part of that tide. It was surprising because the currency was so strong last year, so it was really the bonds driving it. For this year I guess the big theme is developed markets versus EM, some of the EM markets the growth rates look quite good this year but if the dollar is going to be relatively strong it generally provides a bit of a headwind for EM markets. Very difficult to call what will happen in SA for the year on flows. The biggest issue is going to be on the political front and how things play out for the rest of the year. If we get a positive settlement by the end of the year and the ANC, if we get, for instance, possibly Cyril Ramaphosa getting in then I think that could be seen as very business-friendly and in a very positive light. With the economy, inflation coming down, you could see the internationals, some big inflows into our markets in the second half of the year.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Just looking at your individual funds, your flexible fund has been performing relatively okay if you compare it to other funds but I m very interested in your top shareholdings, Naspers 9%, which is significant, and Exxaro Resources 4.6%, just talk about those two, why are you so bullish on those two?MURRAY WINCKLER: That fund has been going for four years, in fact the fourth year birthday was at the end of January and it is number since inception four years ago, so it s been going very well and that s out of 70-something funds. Last year it had a very pedestrian year, it was marginally negative but overall has done very well. Position-wise Naspers is a very big stock in the index, in the All-Share Index it s about 15%, in the SWIX, the shareholder weighted, it s about 18% because it s done so well over time. The worry I suppose a lot of people have is that the valuations are full, the primary driver of it is Tencent in China and, in fact, if you buy Naspers you re effectively getting 117% of Tencent because it s trading at a 33% discount to the sum of the parts, so there s a big margin of safety in buying the stock. Tencent is still growing at a very rapid rate, probably in dollar terms this year it will be around 30% growth rate but it s trading on a demanding rating of 28 times forward. So there s a risk, if something goes wrong in China, policies change or there s a big hiccup it will come under pressure but the fundamentals still look extremely good for that business going forward. It s a nice way to play it, you get into Naspers, you get more than 100% of Tencent, you get the rest of the businesses in Naspers for free, DStv, Mail.Ru and all of that, so we think it looks pretty good. Last year it did very little, I think it was marginally down on the year, so after a bit of a breather we think this year the returns from the stock should be pretty good.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Exxaro?MURRAY WINCKLER: Exxaro is a specific situation where if you look at the composition of the business 50% is coal and of the coal business 80% is cost-plus contracts with Eskom and then it owns effectively Kumba and then it owns Tronox in the States, it s 25% of the NAV and BEE has come to an end and there has been a big placing and it was done at a very deep discount. Last year we managed to get in at R87 when they placed the stock, today it s about R106, it s gone up quite nicely in the last two months and we think it s very undervalued. There is still another placing that we think will happen in the next three to six months but if you look at the coal business that alone is trading on EV/EBITDA of about two-and-a-half times, so if you strip out the listed components effectively that s what you are getting. It is extremely cheap.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Laurium is also a big player in the hedge fund space, how have your hedge funds performed relative to the equity fund over the last few years?MURRAY WINCKLER: Our business started off eight-and-a-half years ago and we were initially in hedge funds, which we still run, about 25% of our business is hedge fund, R3.5 billion. Over the eight-and-a-half years our main long/short hedge fund has generated a return of 13% per annum and it s about 1.8% compound per year faster than the All-Share Index and that obviously is net of hedge fund fees and, as people know, they are high fees, so you need to generate decent returns to offset the fees, and it s done fairly well. Then from a risk point of view, on a risk-adjusted factor the numbers are significantly better than that as well.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Just looking at your fact sheet of your Laurium long/short fund, there is an annual management fee of 1%, ex-VAT, and then an annual performance fee of 20%, ex-VAT. Many people will look at that and say, wow, 20%, when does that fee kick in?MURRAY WINCKLER: Our management fee is, as you say, 1%, and then we have an annual hurdle that we have to beat to get our 20% performance fee and that means the investor has to get at least STeFI, which is a cash hurdle and right now STeFI is about 8%. So we can t take our performance fee unless over 12 months we give an investor at least an 8% return. So once we get above that we can start taking a 20% performance fee. People get nervous about hedge fund fees, they are high but you ve got to look at what is the net return that you are able to generate over time. As I say, we have done 1.8% compound per annum, ahead of the Alsi, since inception each year.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Is that after fees?MURRAY WINCKLER: Absolutely, that s what the investor gets, anything we quote is what the investor gets after fees.RYK VAN NIEKERK: You said earlier that markets could be very volatile this year, is a hedge fund a vehicle or an instrument that could reduce the risk exposure of retail investors?MURRAY WINCKLER: Hedge funds are quite a complex investment class to understand because if you look globally there is US$3 trillion in hedge funds, there are probably about 9000 different types of hedge funds, you get high-risk hedge funds, you get low-risk hedge funds, so there s a huge divergence in how hedge funds are run. In South Africa we are generally quite conservative, the guys who have been around a long time are generally relatively conservative and we haven t had any blowout as such, as we ve had on the international side. So I guess it s understanding the strategy of the hedge fund and the risk parameters that they use. Generally if you look at the returns, and I take the top ten hedge funds that have been around probably for the last five-plus years, where most of the assets are, their risk-adjusted or deviation of returns are way below what the All-Share Index is. So as a whole the industry grouping has a lot lower risk profile than just investing straight into the All-Share Index.RYK VAN NIEKERK: And from an industry perspective, the returns, does that beat the Alsi?MURRAY WINCKLER: Again, I think it depends, you have market-neutral funds, you have equity funds and it depends how much risk you take in the equity fund. But I d say on a risk-adjusted basis the index of hedge funds, again, if I say over the time we have been in there, risk-adjusted return has been well ahead of the Alsi, adjusted for risk. On the straight return, as such, I think the average is very similar to the Alsi, return after fees, which has been about 11% compound over that eight years, not such a great return for the Alsi. So the index is very much the same and the risk-adjust in terms of volatility is significantly lower for the index.RYK VAN NIEKERK: You have recently opened up your hedge funds for retail investors, what has the response been?MURRAY WINCKLER: It s only been open to retail investors now for about five months and right now a lot of these are not on platforms, so Liberty, Investec, for instance, they are busy in the process of being put on. So as a result of that we haven t seen too much going in from retail investors into the hedge space. So until it s on the platforms we think there s probably not that much coming in. We do have a lot of high net worth individuals in our funds, probably about R1.5 billion of the money we run is from high net worth individuals who came in prior to moving into the retail space. But if we look out over the next three to five years we think there will be quite decent retail take-up once the funds are actually on the platforms.RYK VAN NIEKERK: The minimum lump sum investment is R250 000, it s definitely aimed at high net worth individuals. Are you looking to maybe drop that to entice other smaller investors?MURRAY WINCKLER: Again, that is what we ve had when people come directly to us, previously it was for high net worth individuals, it had been R1 million when it wasn t on the retail space, so we just have that if people come direct to us. But once it s on the platforms I think that number will be lowered, if it s, for instance, on a Liberty platform it s likely that R50 000 would be the minimum investment for an individual to come in and that will open it a lot more to the retail space.RYK VAN NIEKERK: You ve been running for a few years, why does it seem so difficult for you to get onto those platforms?MURRAY WINCKLER: No, it s not difficult to get onto the platforms, I think the hedge fund space is new going into the retail space, there probably hasn t been a priority from a lot of the platforms to get the hedge funds up and running. So putting the structures, I guess some diversified products, almost like a multi-manager product, some of the guys are looking at. So it s in process and I think from our side and from our funds I think in the next probably month-and-a-half we ll see our first platform that we will be on and as we move forward we ll probably end up being on about four different platforms.RYK VAN NIEKERK: So it s just an administrative process. Obviously financial advisors would need to advise their clients to invest in these funds, what do you think is the knowledge level of the average financial advisor of hedge funds and how it could benefit a portfolio?MURRAY WINCKLER: I think there s a big education process that still needs to be done, obviously long-only funds are a lot simpler than hedge funds because instead of just being long-only you re now shorting shares. So it s a big process of education and so I think financial advisors have got a lot to learn about hedge funds. There is a small percentage of them that are very familiar with hedge funds and obviously we ve had some of them putting their clients in with us. But I think as a whole there s a lot of education that needs to be done to actually understand the different products out there and the actual risk of each fund.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Just lastly, how does the South African development of hedge funds or adoption of hedge funds differ from other markets like the US market, where hedge funds are a lot more known and popular, are we behind the curve?MURRAY WINCKLER: The hedge fund industry in South Africa is very small, so these days it s probably R70 billion, R80 billion, if you compare it to the unit trust industry of R2 trillion it s tiny. And then globally, as you say, there is $3 trillion, a lot of the endowments in the US, particularly places like Harvard, Boston, they make huge use of hedge funds, so it s much more accepted. So South Africa actually on the regulatory side of hedge funds is well ahead of the rest of the world. So the fact that managers have to be regulated with the FSB and now we have a retail product out here as well that has to be approved by the FSB. We are definitely right at the cutting edge of regulating and risk control of hedge funds. So that side is very good but I think the adoption by consultants and that because the fees are quite high they haven t really pushed it that much but I think as we move forward over time there will definitely be more money moving into the hedge funds.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Who should invest in hedge funds?MURRAY WINCKLER: For people to invest in hedge funds it s very important to get financial advisors who understand hedge funds and that they are able to sift out the different risk profiles within hedge funds and understand what your objective is and the risks you take around that objective on the hedge funds as a whole, they are people who have been around quite a while and the risks are a lot lower than people do perceive. But it s important to understand the product first.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Thank you, Murray. That was Murray Winckler, he is from Laurium Capital.