Citibank, the North American bank accused of colluding to fix the price of the ZAR/USD currency pair, has reached an almost R70 million settlement with the Competition Commission (CompCom).The bank will pay an administrative penalty of R69 500 860, for its role in colluding on the price for bids, offers and bid offer spreads for spot trades in relation to currency trading involving the rand.In a statement, the CompCom said the administrative penalty does not exceed 10% of Citibank s annual turnover in South Africa. This settlement was done to encourage a speedy settlement and full disclosure to strengthen the evidence for prosecution of the other banks, said Tembinkosi Bonakele, Competition Commissioner.The commission added that Citibank has undertaken to cooperate in further investigations and will avail witnesses to assist the prosecution of the other banks that colluded in the matter. Citi is pleased that the matter has been settled. We will continue building upon the changes that we have already made to our systems, controls, and monitoring processes. Fostering a culture of ethical behaviour has been, and continues to be, a top priority for Citi, Citibank said in a statement.In a detailed complaint referral to the Competition Tribunal, the CompCom alleged that Citibank trader Christopher Cummins entered into agreements to fix bids and offers prices on a currency trading platform, as well as agreements to fix prices of bids and offers quoted to customers, agreements to fix bid-offer spreads and to coordinate trading in the ZAR/USD currency spread. He was also implicated in coordinating trading activities around the FIX, or time of day in which trading in currencies yields the benchmark rates for currencies. Cummins, who pleaded guilty to conspiring to fix prices in the forex market in a New York Court on January 12 2017, is said to be cooperating with US authorities in an ongoing investigation into the forex market.Cummins, along with co-conspirators at competing institutions, manipulated the prices of Central and Eastern European, Middle Eastern and African currencies on an electronic forex platform through the creation of non-bona fide trades, coordinated placement of bids and offers on that platform and agreed on prices they would quoted specific customers, among other conduct, the US Department of Justice said. His plea agreement follows US investigations, which saw the likes of Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, Barclays and The Royal Bank of Scotland plead guilty to forex manipulation at the parent level in 2015. Collectively, the banks were fined more than $2.5 billion with respect to a conspiracy to manipulate the price the USD/EUR currency pair. In South Africa, the CompCom has referred the collusion case to the Competition Tribunal for prosecution of 17 local and foreign banks. The banks are said to haven been part of the forex trading cartel between 2007 and 2013.The CompCom has recommended that 10% administrative penalties of 10% of the bank s annual turnover be imposed on the guilty banks.