The next growth phase for diversified industrial group Bidvest hinges on SA s political stability, with the company being on the prowl for more deals in its home country and international markets.CEO Lindsay Ralphs says Bidvest, the operator of mostly South African businesses including freight services, security, cleaning, car rental, and plumbing supplies, is hoping for a more stable year ahead. When we had Nenegate [the firing of former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene] and the rand jumping all over the show it made life particularly difficult to operate and business confidence levels dropped. The political environment is now more stable. The rand is now at R13 [to the dollar], which is a reasonable level. We are aware of the ANC elective conference coming up in December. As long as that kind of stability continues, I think business confidence should continue. And if business confidence picks up then the economy will pick up, says Ralphs.This infers that the operating environment is now more conducive for the company to ramp up its investments through scale-building acquisitions.Ralphs says Bidvest is looking for bolt-on acquisitions in a market and industry in which Bidvest already operates, including the UK, where it already owns a 100% stake in automotive firm Ontime Automotive and 80% in vehicle rescue recovery group Mansfield. We have already identified one or two deals. There is a lot of room for bolt-on acquisitions. In its arsenal for further deals outside of its home market is the capacity to raise up to R15 billion from its facilities with banks.Says Wayne McCurrie, senior portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments: Bidvest has an extremely big balance sheet, which is positive for a big deal offshore. There aren&#8217;t many opportunities and [it] can&#8217;t get any bigger in South Africa. The hunt for deals follows the unbundling and separate JSE-listing of its global foodservice business Bidcorp, which has a market capitalisation of R90 billion at the time of writing nearly 40% higher than Bidvest s (R55.3 billion).McCurrie says the unbundling would allow Bidvest to raise its own capital for expansion rather than it shelling out large sums of capital for its foodservice business (now Bidcorp).Bidvest s expansion plans were revealed on Monday with the release of its results for the six months to December 2016, which showed that the company reported a 3.2% rise in trading profit to R2.8 billion on the back of a 4% growth in revenue to R36 billion. Its headline earnings per share grew by 4.4% to 510.3 cents compared to the same comparable period last year.Bidvest s operations comprise of seven divisions including services (which has been targeted for international expansion), freight, automotive, commercial products and financial services and reported a trading profit in the range of 1.4% to 37%. Its office and print revenue division declined by 1.4%.The only pinch is in its Namibian fishing business, which is facing fishing quota problems. The finance ministry in Namibia has the sole right on who to gives fishing quotas to and it has been favouring small fishing operations over big businesses. That will probably continue. The Namibian economy is also not doing well, says Ralphs.To overcome this challenge, Bidvest will look to enter into joint ventures by selling parts of its business to local fish players. However, it&#8217;s not exiting the business. For example, Ralphs says the company sold two out of seven vessels to a joint venture partner and has a earmarked a third to sell. We are finding Africa to be tough at the moment. The problems are the size of catch, the international price of fish and markets that are either closed or open to Namibia from time to time, he says.Listen to Bidvest CEO Lindsay Ralphs on SAfm as he discusses the group&#8217;s results with Siki Mgabadeli here.