Jonathan Broomberg, CEO of Discovery Health, responds to the article titled Healthcare industry desperate for TripAdvisor solution. Choosing a medical aid that best suits your needs is a lot more complex and confusing than simply buying a car or house at the most affordable price even with modern, instant-access technology.A recent healthcare consumer survey conducted by the Healthcare Market Inquiry found that most people default to word-of-mouth information or just go with their employers choice. Both options are obviously far from ideal. A dire need for simple, reliable, understandable information to empower people and enable them to compare product options emerged from the survey respondents. What people most want is specifics on the credentials of doctors, experiences at hospitals, as well as costs of services. The most shared demand is for information enabling product-for-product comparison or at the very least, readily available bang-for-buck data, on a single &#8220;go-to&#8221; app or online website, similar to Hippo or TripAdvisor.In many other parts of the world, these sorts of measures are in place and have shown to have a direct correlation to providing a higher quality of care and value, while reducing costs. It shouldn t come as a surprise that when people understand their condition better and know more about the best available treatment plans; they tend to make better choices.Building on the insights gleaned over recent years of surveying the experience of Discovery Health Medical Scheme members during their hospital admissions, we have been focusing on narrowing the information gap between patients, healthcare professionals and funders. The good news is that in the year ahead we aim to expand the functionality of the Discovery app to allow members to rate their service providers. What many may not know is that there is already online data available detailing members experiences during hospital admissions and a rating system of healthcare facilities, plus an application called HealthID, now in use by 1.3 million of our members and 3 000 doctors. HealthID consolidates (with patient member permission) detailed patient healthcare information for doctors and members, and the app has already had a significant impact on quality of care. It eliminates the duplication of tests and lights the best way forward for optimal treatment and superior health outcomes.We are also working with health professional associations to implement measures and reports on various outcomes of hospitalisation, such as death rates, hospital-acquired infections and re-admissions, with a view to enhancing the feedback process and empowering people to make way more informed choices.The benefits of this emerging &#8220;virtuous cycle&#8221; are tangible for consumers of healthcare. Discovery Health s fastest growing plan option, the Smartplan, (with 40 000 members), uses the Discovery app to direct members to selected GP s, specialists and hospitals who are more efficient, with better outcomes. Claims in these networks are significantly lower than average, allowing for a very competitive premium. As a result of the patient ratings tool within the Discovery app that allows members to rate the healthcare services they received, several hospital s scores have also improved, (especially where they fed data back to their own staff).The reason we believe in empowering the industry with the appropriate contextual information, at the relevant time in the patient s healthcare journey, is because it has the potential to benefit everyone accessing the participating healthcare services.