Snapchat s owners have realised that the company is probably not worth as much as they had first hoped. After talk of an IPO valuation of $25 billion or more, it now looks like the firm will float with a market cap of $18.5 billion, or about a quarter below the initial estimates with shares going for anywhere from $14-$16. At present our Snap IPO market suggests it will be at the top of this range.This is a positive move. The owners have been forced to admit that the higher valuation was just not reasonable. Institutional investors were less than pleased after the filing at the start of the month and a valuation of $18.5 billion is more realistic and helps ensure the stock is sold in range. But by traditional yardsticks it still looks overpriced.First, the numbers look precarious. The company lost over $500 million last year, up from $373 million in 2015. A cash burn of close to $1 billion in two years is a cause for concern, if not alarm. In the old days companies had to deliver profits consistently before they were allowed to list on Wall Street, but these days we are used to loss-making start-ups tapping investors for cash. But how much cash is what matters in the case of Snap. The comparison with Facebook is instructive &#8211; Facebook had booked a $1 billion profit in the year before its IPO, while Snap is coming into its floatation after losing $515 million.A mooted valuation of $25 billion failed to add up and $18.5 billion still looks pretty steep. True, revenues exploded by around 600% last year but the cash burn is enormous. Snap also has to contend with very large, rich rivals who could squeeze it out.Of course investors are always looking forward, rather than back. Sales are expected to double this year from 2016. A little worrying that in its S-1 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission Snap said that it may never be profitable. Candid, but not inspiring for investors being asked to pay through the nose for the prospect of Snapchat turning its revenue growth into something sustainable.Next, the shares on sale won t carry voting rights. Retail investors might not care much but what kind of institutional investor wants to buy into this? A lack of voting rights ought to apply a significant discount to the shares, and that may be part of the reason for the depreciation we ve seen.Its user base is young, which is seen as a good thing. But will they stick around? Snapchat s USP is the ephemeral nature of the content shared. It will need users to be stickier. It will also have to expand its user base beyond young Americans, who make up the bulk of customers.The big worry is that user growth is slowing. Snapchat added 15 million users in each of the first three quarters of 2016, but this decelerated to just 5 million in the last quarter the weakest increase since Q3 2014. Revenues can only grow so much when user growth is not leading the way. Does Snap have the broader market appeal of a Facebook?Loss-making tech firms with a limited prospect of making a profit listing on the stock market has an all-too-familiar ring about it. Snap s IPO has the hallmarks of the dotcom bubble and this should have investors running for cover. Nevertheless there ought to be plenty of buzz around the IPO and with equity markets operating on rocket fuel at present, no shortage of demand.Neil Wilson is senior market analyst at ETX Capital