JOHANNESBURG A lot can happen in ten years.Over the past decade, investors have experienced a global financial crisis, unprecedented quantitative easing and the end of the commodity boom. More recently, Britain s decision to exit the European Union and the election of Donald Trump as US president added to the uncertainty. The rise of populism and elections in the Euro area this year raise questions about the sustainability of the euro. At the same time the hard Brexit negotiation process is under way. Locally, political uncertainty persists and commentators are closely watching the ANC s upcoming election at the end of the year.Many investors are quite interested and slightly concerned to see what Trump will do next, says Peter Wille, head of investment research and fund management at Nedbank Private Wealth.But because Nedbank Private Wealth doesn t have specific insight into or control of these events, they don t try to invest based on these factors. It is more important to focus on what assets to own and what not to own and build portfolios that deliver real returns over time to clients, he says.Michael Wilmot, head of investments, says they don t manage money based on headlines, but try to get the overall long term portfolio construction right. They tweak portfolios based on valuation and as opportunities arise and generally stay invested for the long term. Diversification is structurally embedded into the Nedbank Private Wealth advisory process, whether by currency, asset class, investment style, sector or stock. They also have a clear preference for quality businesses that are in a better position to withstand shocks.Often, money follows short term historical performance and trends to the detriment of clients wealth. It is important to stick to your guns and convince clients to do the same, Wilmot says. Wilmot believes it is their specific private client investment process and philosophy, capital allocation discipline and focus on valuation that led to the firm s outperformance over the last decade.The Nedgroup Investments Private Wealth Equity Fund recently won the Raging Bull award for the best South African General Equity Fund on a risk-adjusted basis, while its Balanced Fund of Funds delivered an annualised 10.94% over the ten-year period through December 2016, compared to its peer group average of 8.26%. Both these portfolios are the number one performing funds in their category over ten years at the end of December 2016.Wille says its relative outperformance has not been the result of one or two big sixes , but consistently hitting singles, resulting in a diversified source of alpha.Many high net worth individuals and charitable foundation investors have a need to grow their income stream while also protecting capital, which naturally led the firm to asset classes like preference shares and property. Listed property in particular was quite unpopular in the institutional space during the mid 2000s and this asset allocation call added significantly towards its outperformance over the long term, Wilmot adds.The table below sets out its average positioning across various risk profiles as well as the benchmark returns during 2016. It expects another challenging year ahead for investors and remains conservatively positioned.&nbsp;Asset ClassNPW positioning Benchmark return in 2016 EquitiesUnderweight-0.6%BondsNeutral15.4%PropertyNeutral10.2%Preference sharesOverweight18.8%CashNeutral to slightly overweight7.4%Wille says while equities have delivered quite poor returns over the last few years and remain on the expensive side, it now offers slightly more value than before.He believes the local education sector is attractive as it is quite immune to the global environment. The firm has decent exposure to the IT sector where there is room for structural growth, but remains underweight in resources where long-term valuations are not attractive. The notable exception is oil, which informs their holdings in MTN, BHP Billiton and Sasol.But increased political risk, both locally and globally, is a key potential headwind for equities.While bonds offer value, the political risk related to National Treasury remains. Despite a stretched fiscus, there is pressure on government to spend more, which is partly reflected in the price of bonds. Inflation-linked bonds we don t think offer much value. We think the real yields are too low, especially compared to vanilla bonds. Preference shares still offer good value with attractive dividend yields of 8% to 10% and potential for further corporate action, Wille argues. But despite its golden decade, it is acutely aware that past performance is not an indication of future performance.While it is nice to be in this position, the main aim is to deliver consistent, real returns for clients by sticking to their strategy and making considered investments, Wille says. That is our objective. If we end up being number one as a result, that is a very nice additional outcome, but that is not our primary goal. * This article was brought to you by Nedbank