S&amp;P Global Ratings maintains a negative outlook on South Africa s rated banks at the start of 2017 but sees the pressures on domestic banks easing.In its latest Ratings Direct report, S&amp;P attributed the negative sentiment to a combination of weak economic growth and the persistent credit risk of over-leveraged households.However, a modest improvement in real GDP growth and a slower rate of interest rate hikes, if any, is expected to provide some support. We expect the downside risks will continue to lie dormant for the domestic banking sector and therefore credit losses for the top tier banks of between 0.8% and 1.0% in 2017. We expect the domestic banking sector&#8217;s return on equity to stabilise at 15%-19% for the next couple of years as the positive effect of the gradual rise in interest rates is mitigated by increasing provisions and cost of funds, said S&amp;P.The ratings agency cut its domestic growth assumptions to 0.5% for 2016 and 1.4% for 2017, down from the 0.6% and 1.7% forecast for the same period in June last year. It said South Africa s growth is contingent on global growth, especially as the economy is directly and indirectly linked to commodities demand from China. Long-term domestic challenges remain a persistent drag on growth, and while the government has identified important reforms and supply bottlenecks, it will take a long time to address the longstanding skills shortage and infrastructure bottlenecks. Without signs of real improvement or at least policy certainty and continuity, private sector investment is likely to remain low, S&amp;P said.It flagged domestic households as the most significant risk source for banks due to their relatively high leverage and wide income disparities when compared with other emerging markets.Household debt to disposable income fell to 77.6% in 2015 from 85% in 2008. But S&amp;P is concerned about the changing nature of the leverage from secured residential mortgages to unsecured lending and instalment credit.It said weakening household affordability, indicated by an increase in the debt-service-to-disposable income to 9.3% in 2015 (up from 8.7% in 2012), has been influenced by interest rates and affordability. We believe that the impetus for interest rate increases is declining, balancing the lower economic growth and inflation just outside the publicised range of the central bank. Exogenous shocks could change this, especially if the US dollar interest rate normalisation occurs quicker and harder than we currently expect. However, our base case now anticipates interest rate rises of 25-75 basis points over the next 12-18 months and inflation of 6%-7%, which will continue to pressurise household affordability but not materially weaken asset quality, it said.According to S&amp;P, the banks corporate loan books are to outperform loans to households in 2017. A less than 3% total loan exposure to mining and minimal foreign currency across the entire book, protects the quality of loans against resources and a weak rand.It also expects the restructuring of funding profiles, spurred by a need to meet Basel III liquidity coverage ratios and net stable funding ratios, to slow or stop partly due to regulatory discretion. With regard to systemic shock, we see the closed rand system and lack of external and hard currency funding as a significant boon for the South African banks, especially compared with other emerging markets, which is important given reduced global liquidity and anti-emerging market investor sentiment, it said.S&amp;P added that the divestments and partial unbundling of the South African banking group is unlikely to have an impact on their performance in the next year. Instead, the banks operations in the rest of Africa are likely to weigh on profitability.