Bryte Insurance, formerly Zurich South Africa, has affirmed its commitment to doing business in Africa.The rebranding comes after Switzerland s Zurich Insurance Group sold its Southern Africa operations to Canada-based Fairfax Financial Holdings in December 2016. Prior to the sale Zurich, which was reshaping its geographic footprint, questioned whether it was best placed to host the South African assets . But it appears that the Toronto Stock Exchange-listed Fairfax, through Bryte, has no such concerns. Edwyn O Neill, CEO of Bryte South Africa, affirmed the insurer&#8217;s appetite for doing business on the continent.For now, the firm will focus on the rebranding and will likely announce plans with specific targets to expand its operations outside of South Africa and Botswana in around a year&#8217;s time, he said. The rebranding, transforming and transitioning of our business is critical over the next 12 months. There are a number of systems and processes that we have to work on in order to be a standalone business and we re investing in them as we speak, he said.It is currently investing in new technology in order to phase out some of the Zurich systems currently in use and to meet its needs as it seeks opportunities for growth.Following the rebranding O Neill said it would up the focus on its specialist lines, which comprise the bulk of its business. Such lines include engineering, marine, specialist motor, hospitality, gem and jewel and property. Bryte will continue to run as a standalone business that approaches risk with purpose, despite the change in ownership.He said Fairfax s model &#8211; in which it functions as a holding company, provides support where necessary and allows each of its subsidiaries to act independently under their own brands &#8211; would extend to the Southern Africa operations. It is business as usual for us. All existing procurement, distribution and policyholder contracts remain in force and all claims are to be handled as normal. It s merely a name change, he said.O Neill added that Fairfax s interest in the continent is evident through an initial public offering (IPO) and $500 million capital raise by Fairfax Africa. The group announced the Toronto listing of Fairfax s African investment fund in mid-February. Concurrent to the listing, Fairfax Africa acquired a 42.2% indirect stake in agriculture and food processing company AFGRI. Its investment objective is to achieve long-term capital appreciation, while preserving capital, by investing in public and private equity securities and debt instruments of African businesses or other businesses with customers, suppliers or business primarily conducted in, or dependent on, Africa, the group said of Fairfax Africa s scope.Bloomberg reports that interest in Fairfax Africa failed to meet expectations as the group was looking to raise as much as $1 billion through the IPO. It said the insurer raised more than $1 billion in its only other region-specific public fund, administered by Fairfax India Holdings.O Neill said the Africa fund presents an equivalent opportunity to the India fund and that it will grow over time as opportunities in Africa materialise.