Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.SpeechAt 9pm Eastern Time President Donald Trump will address Congress in a speech that markets will be parsing for policy specifics. With the Dow Jones Industrial Average posting gains in every session since the president promised a phenomenal plan to cut taxes, the risk of investor disappointment is high.March rate hikeThe odds of a rate increase at the Federal Reserve&#8217;s March meeting jumped 10 points yesterday to 50%, though traders were unable to point to a single factor for the rapid rise. Voting FOMC member Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas president Robert Kaplan reiterated his view yesterday that policy makers should raise interest rates without paying too much attention to markets. Mohamed A. El-Erian said in his Bloomberg View column that a rate hike would show the central bank moving from tactical to a strategic posture. Norway wins bigThe world&#8217;s largest sovereign wealth fund posted gains of 447 billion kroner ($53 billion) in 2016 for a 6.9% annual return, with the strong equity rally following Trump&#8217;s election driving the results for the Norwegian fund. Elsewhere, hedge funds seem to be falling back in love with commodities, reacting to the prospect of accelerating inflation due to Trump&#8217;s policies. Markets quietOvernight, the MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index retreated 0.2% while Japan&#8217;s Topix index closed 0.1% higher. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was unchanged at 5:36am following a four day decline. US stock futures were also unchanged as investors across the world seem to be waiting on direction from Donald Trump&#8217;s speech. Coming up..There is plenty to keep the market occupied before the big address in Washington later. At 8:30am Eastern Time the second reading of fourth-quarter US GDP is released, with slight upward revisions expected. There are speeches from three Fed presidents due, with Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President Patrick Harker at 3:00pm, San Francisco Fed President John Williams at 3:30pm and St. Louis Fed President James Bullard at 6:40pm 2017 Bloomberg