The passing of Barry Sergeant marks the end of an era for South African financial journalism. Not only did Barry distinguish himself as a champion for minority shareholders, he stood for something only those who had the privilege of working with him could truly appreciate, exposing the shenanigans of those holding positions of trust in the corporate sector.Unlike many he was never afraid to drop the pleasantries when describing the misconduct of those unfortunate enough to have fallen victim to the tip of his pen. He was an authority when it came to global mining, an institution when it came to corporate malfeasance and an unmatched expert at explaining it succinctly to his readers.But to me he was the ultimate symbol of professionalism in an industry that seems to place more weight on being first than being right. The Barry I know spent several months sometimes years researching the same topic. He never seemed to get tired of the detail, he never got bored cross-examining the same subjects, he always aimed and often understood that unless he was thorough his reputation would be compromised.And it s this dedication to detail, to being thorough, that made him without a doubt the best in the business. But not everyone appreciated this approach, others found it better to hurl insults at his conclusions or assertions. A recent example being the reaction to his last book, The Kebble Collusion, by KPMG s Danie Van Heerden, who described it as a work of fiction , riddled with factual inaccuracies, unfounded allegations and inappropriate conclusions . For the record, Barry always gave the opposing side a right of reply. He always made sure that where disputed facts existed, they would be reflected. So it often amused him when after spending years researching a topic, the reaction to this studious effort by his detractors would be a one-line response involving an entity which has, on several occasions, been caught signing off on financial statements which were later found to be a work of fiction . Fact is, apart from the late Deon Basson, there is no one in the financial journalism community who had the depth of knowledge about global mining, Brett Kebble, Investec, RandGold &amp; Exploration and the misbehavior of some of our esteemed corporate executives.He stood up for minority shareholders, even when it was unpopular. He fought against the dilution of minority shareholder rights much to my disagreement when BEE was introduced and he always made a point of raising the bar for SA financial journalism.Often misunderstood, he was one of the best financial journalists in South Africa. And the best part of it all was that his reputation was built on the back of painstaking hard work, trolling through annual reports, speaking to chief executives, disgruntled shareholders, attending actual press and investor briefings and not on gossip and rumour mongering.The reason he stands out and will forever be remembered is that unlike his contemporaries he was not obsessed with the easy pickings of state corruption. He preferred like all good well brought up gentlemen a better class of opponent.Farewell Barry, you will be sorely missed. Memorial serviceA memorial service will be held on Friday February 10 (today) at 15:30 at St Johns College in Houghton. The service will be followed by a Wake at the Kayalami Country Club.