It s no secret that small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in South Africa face numerous hurdles and administration burdens, which can undermine their growth potential and survival.South Africa s ailing economy, an increasingly cumbersome regulatory environment for entrepreneurs, and low business confidence has prompted market watchers to conclude that SMEs are exposed to one of the toughest years in decades.As Business Partners Limited s executive director Gerrie van Biljon puts it: looking at the fluctuations in the rand value as an example, in 2016, the country has seen the direct effects of political instability and global factors on the exchange rate&#8230; Entrepreneurs need a stable environment in which to operate. And judging from the level of economic and political uncertainty in the country, the year 2017 will be an equally tough year.However, investments in technology can help SMEs ride out difficult market conditions. In theory, technology enables SMEs to increase their exposure to new markets, brings them closer to existing and new customers, cuts costs and lowers the barriers to entry.Technology, in this case, includes social media, smartphones, cloud apps, personal computers, accounting software and others.According to the 2016 State of South African Small Business report by World Wide Worx in partnership with accounting software firm Xero, technology is becoming increasingly relevant to SMEs. The report is based on a survey of 400 small business owners across 22 sectors in South Africa.The report reveals that 66% of SMEs cited technology as important to running their businesses, while 4% ranked it as not important. Also, 55% of SMEs claimed that smart devices and cloud apps have made running their businesses easier.Despite an increasingly digital age, the report notes that 26% of SMEs in the report consider a personal computer to be an essential business tool, while only 6% deem an internet connection to be necessary.Benefits of technologyThe head of customer value propositions at FNB Business Mags Ponnan says although some corporates have embraced the power of social media, newly established SMEs have yet to fully embrace this form of communication and marketing.He adds that it&#8217;s vital for SMEs to understand what they are trying to achieve when using social media tools. You can focus on product push, brand exposure, or simply a platform for customers to compliment or complain amongst others. The tactic is to focus on one specific area. Also, SMEs must not expect to get immediate results since these are platforms that will demand ingenuity, a personal touch and consistency, says Ponnan. Ensure that you can track the leads and traffic coming from the social media platforms. This will give you an idea in terms of which platform gives you the greatest reach. CostsHistorically, the high cost of broadband and software would deter SMEs from investing in this space, as startups are usually in the growth phase and have financial constraints.The commercial director of mobile technology specialist wiGroup Nicholas Bednall says new technologies such as social media platforms are cost effective for SMEs, but more technical technologies such as mobile apps or mobile payment platforms can be expensive. Bednall says there is now a shift in the industry to making these technologies more affordable for entrepreneurs. SMEs need to use tools that allow them to know their customers. They have no way of analysing who their customer is It s very difficult for SMEs to build critical mass. But if they go about it the right way and use the internet to reach customers they can build a sustainable business, he says.Bednall also suggests that larger enterprises need to offer technological solutions for the SME market. He singles out New York Stock Exchange-listed GoDaddy as one company already supporting SMEs, as it offers website domains for SMEs at an affordable cost.Locally, telecommunications company Vodacom has developed the Ready Business Index, which enables SMEs to assess their level of competitiveness in technological terms. It assesses cultural attitudes, IT solutions and infrastructure, and procedures that enable agility within the business environment. Read more about the index here.This article was brought to you by Vodacom