RYK VAN NIEKERK: Former Springbok prop, Cobus Visagie, joins me now, he is the founder and director of the UK-based Africa Merchant Capital Group. The group provides a range of invest services in Africa, north of the Limpopo. Cobus, welcome to the show! Africa Merchant Group opened its doors in 2014 and aimed to provide a range of services in Africa, how has the ride been? COBUS VISAGIE: Good afternoon, Ryk, we actually opened our doors in 2012 and I would say that since 2012 the commodity cycle has had a severe downturn, as South Africa has experienced as well. So it has probably not been the most opportune time to launch a business focused on Africa but I think growing in experience we have positioned the business very well over time to build a very successful merchant banking offering on the continent. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Africa has been touted as one of the growth regions in the world and in several markets that growth didn t really materialise, did that impact your business? COBUS VISAGIE: I do think the one thing that we as a business, to describe it, we have got the majority of our team in London, Nairobi and Cape Town are South Africans and I would say that we don t what we always locally say is we don t always drink the Kool-Aid. So I think especially certain thematic investment, for instance FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) and retail has probably been over-emphasised in the market &#8211; the demographic dividend &#8211; and there are very few groups that have been able to really capitalise on that because there has obviously been competition.A group that has done extremely well throughout Africa is Shoprite but if you now look at, say, for example, Choppies expansion north of South Africa has not been as successful as everyone hoped for and there are many groups like that in countries like Kenya and so on, where it hasn t done well. So I think we as a group focus a lot on businesses that generate dollar income and if you are sitting in Africa with local currency overheads and the ability to export products or provide a service and an income stream that are dollar or hard currency denominated you can be in a very strong position. So I think that is how we have been able to navigate ourselves throughout this period. RYK VAN NIEKERK: What are your main product offerings? COBUS VISAGIE: We started the business in 2012 as a mid-market corporate finance advisor, so we focus typically on transaction sizes of US$5 million to $50 million, we focus just on growth equity opportunities in the market. We typically represent the African entrepreneur who wants to grow their business and the typical investor is the private equity funds investing in sub-Saharan Africa. Then in 2014 we launched a public equity fund, our investment management business, that is now based in South Africa, it s got an FSP one and two licence but it s a Cayman dollar fund investing the stock exchanges of sub-Sahara Africa, outside of South Africa. So that s typically Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania, Namibia, Botswana and even Mauritius, so every country that has a stock exchange.Then last year we launched our trade finance business, which is focused on transactional trade finance, both import and export. That business is Pan-Africa focused and it s based in London, the team sits in our office in London. Then we ve also got our fixed-asset strategy called AMC Renewables, where we focus specifically on solar and wind deployment in Sub-Sahara Africa, where we typically take principal equity stakes in these major renewable infrastructure projects. So that basically gives us an all-round merchant banking offering to service the Sub-Sahara African capital markets RYK VAN NIEKERK: How have those private equity funds performed? COBUS VISAGIE: On the private equity side, the well-known consultants in South Africa Riscuro recently brought out some performance numbers for the private equity funds. It has been the missing link in the reporting across the board because these funds typically have five- to ten-year tenure and it s taken some time for the funds that launched in 2005 to 2007 to report their exits. But in general the performance has been double-digit dollar returns, which reports very favourably if you ve been a rand investor, especially in the market, but even from an international perspective it s positive.But I would say that from a US-based investment, and from a European-based investment, it didn t outperform many of the European and US investment funds. So the verdict is out a little bit. I ll just make one more comment, there is a lot of dry powder or capital still available to be invested in Africa in funds typically of $1 billion, there are about seven funds that have got $1 billion of investable capital. They typically want to invest $50 million minimum per ticket and that causes a lot of competition around your very attractive deals. So there s a lot of pressure on your entry multiples for those types of investments in Africa. RYK VAN NIEKERK: How many investments have you made and which are your favourite markets or where have you made the most of those investments? COBUS VISAGIE: To clarify that, in the private markets, so in private equity we are the advisor, so we as a team typically do five to six transactions. Typically our areas of focus are agriculture, TMT technology, media and telecoms, financial services and resources.&nbsp;I think some of the exciting opportunities that we are working on from a developmental point of view is currently in Malawi we are advising the biggest local fertiliser company, the biggest poultry company and it s in the ranges of ticket sizes that we have. This is a very confidential type market, so that is why these things are not really always communicated in the market.&nbsp;We re also advising currently on very significant project in the data centre space in South Africa, around a $60 million investment in the data centre business in South Africa. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Cobus, why do you exclude South Africa from your investment focus? COBUS VISAGIE: In trade finance we do a lot of business in South Africa with South African traders trading into Africa. So I just want to clarify that, with regard to the investment management business many investment managers globally will have allocation to South Africa through global EM funds or South African long only or hedge funds, and so it s really to enable your global investment managers to have a segregated allocation to Africa outside of South Africa. In the private markets our view is that South Africa is a very well intermediated market, so you have to ask yourself the question why South African business was not able to raise the capital amongst the local private equity funds. So I think there s a lot more of an opportunity to find businesses and entrepreneurs in Africa that are attractive but don t have access to the capital markets in their local economy. That said, a lot of the businesses that we advise have got South African management or has got a South African flavour to it, particularly South Africans that have operated in countries outside of South Africa for the last 20 or so years. RYK VAN NIEKERK: You referred earlier to your trade finance division, the one you ve launched quite recently, tell us again, what is this business all about and which areas do you focus on? COBUS VISAGIE: The trade finance opportunity is one that will just continue to grow. The reason for this very significant opportunity for a boutique trade finance business like ourselves is because of the Basel III requirements for banks, the capital adequacy requirements for banks, for trade finance, has increased from a 3% capital requirement of the book to 25%. The result of that is that a lot of the confirmation lines facilitating trades have been removed from the markets and many times a client who has had a long-standing relationship with a bank are not being serviced by the banks anymore. So we provide what we call an off balance sheet trade finance facility, meaning that we don t impede on the collateral that a bank may have over a client s balance sheet. So we focus on the structure of the specific trade to provide the trade finance.So typically we are signing master risk participation agreements with all the major banks operating in Africa, including the South African banks, and through which they show opportunities of their clients, as well as we participate in transactions where they are involved, and we can provide capital. Typically for a South African trader exporting, say, capital goods to Botswana or we ve got cases of a South African company exporting buses to Zambia, what we do is we rely on a letter of credit against which we extend the finance to the client. So typically in this market a trader does not have enough balance sheet to facilitate that trade, whilst we are focusing just on the bank collateral, which is a letter of credit, to extend the loan. It s a very sophisticated market but a letter of credit is a collateral instrument that a bank has to honour. If a bank doesn t honour a letter of credit then one of the repercussions is that it can lose its SWIFT key. So one of the first obligations that a bank will honour is their letter of credit obligations. So our loan book is of an extremely high quality, the lowest bank risk that we have in our book is BBB, which is the South African banks on our books. RYK VAN NIEKERK: I assume this is trade finance for cross-border transactions of physical goods and services, as you mentioned earlier, equipment and vehicles, what is the minimum amount you would be prepared to finance? COBUS VISAGIE: The minimum amount is very much determined if we can do repeat business but in short we d probably look at transactions from $500 000 upwards, up to $10 million, that s the area that we focus on. That s pretty much probably 80% of the trade happens on letters of credit up to about $10 million. RYK VAN NIEKERK: What is the demand for such trade finance? COBUS VISAGIE: As I explained, it s very significant because we do not take collateral over the client s balance sheet or impede on the current collateral of the banks with the client. So a major focus of ours is to enable what we call pre-shipment finance. So typically, as an example, we ve got a client that is involved in the South African renewable programme, they want to import steel installations for a solar farm in South Africa, this steel needs to be manufactured in Germany and it s a four-week assembly process in Germany but the letter of credit does not extend for that period before that. The client does not have the finance lines available from the bank to pay for that but we are willing against, for example, a Rand Merchant Bank letter of credit, we are willing to finance that pre-shipment finance required for the product to be assembled and put on ship. That s where there is a significant opportunity in the market.We ve got all kinds of ways that we mitigate the performance risk on that through insurance wrapping and so on. But the major thing that we see and you asked the question, when we started, about Africa, you ve got currency devaluation in Africa that s rife, many times you ve got different asset cycles, different asset classes that are in cycles but trade is growing continually and the African markets are, as you know, major importers but also exporters and because trade is a hard currency, a dollar or a euro-denominated business we basically hedge ourselves against any currency fluctuations because we do short-term trades of up to 120 days and we are really providing a working capital solution to facilitate the trade. So it s a business with exceptional scope within African markets. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Just lastly, before I let you go, I can t not speak rugby to you, the Boks last year had one of its most dreadful seasons ever, what do you expect from the team this year? COBUS VISAGIE: I ve got better hope for the African markets than I have for South Africa s performance in 2017. But I had the experience of playing the last six years of my career in England for Saracens and I ve got a good overview of what s happening on a very high level in the UK and England s rugby setup and I just think that without a change of management in South Africa and better leadership at all levels in South African rugby we are just going to slip further and further behind the rest of the world because it s not a player issue, we ve got exceptional players at all levels. Our under-19 and under-20 players are always in the top four, normally playing the final of those international championships. But I think we need a drastic change in the way we manage the business of rugby, otherwise we are going to continue to have this slippage. That s the unfortunate news. Rugby is no different than business. RYK VAN NIEKERK: Yes, you go through lean times and hopefully we can find an upcycle. Thank you, Cobus. That was Cobus Visagie, former Springbok prop and currently a director of the UK-based Africa Merchant Capital Group.