JOHANNESBURG South Africa just needs to do the basics right to reach an economic growth rate of 3%, the head of Goldman Sachs in South Africa has argued.Colin Coleman said although the labour situation had stabilised, resulting in improved productivity and exports, South Africa had underperformed in terms of modernising the economy and doing the right things .This included an appropriate regulatory regime, modernising state-owned enterprises, getting decent governance in place and ensuring that the country received bang for its buck. South Africa was spending a lot of money in areas like education, health and housing and had to ensure it got value for its money, Coleman said. It is just getting the basics right. We don t need a radical departure from what we are doing to get to 3% and you know it is like flogging a dead horse but I ll keep at it. He was addressing an audience during a post-budget panel discussion hosted by the South African Institute of Tax Professionals (Sait) and the Financial Planning Institute of Southern Africa (FPI) on Thursday.His comments follow after finance minister Pravin Gordhan kept his GDP growth forecasts unchanged when he tabled the 2017 Budget in Parliament on Wednesday. National Treasury expects GDP growth to improve from 0.5% in 2016, to 1.3% in 2017 and 2% in 2018.Low growth has frustrated efforts to address unemployment, poverty and inequality and has contributed to South Africa s investment grade credit rating being put on life support. It has also left Gordhan with very little room to manoeuvre and some analysts have expressed fears that tax hikes announced during Wednesday&#8217;s Budget, could add to growth woes.Konstantin Makrelov, chief director for modelling and forecasting at National Treasury, said five factors had driven the slowdown in economic growth over the past five years protracted labour strikes in the mining and manufacturing sector, electricity constraints, the drought, pressure on global growth and policy uncertainty.Improvements had been made in all these areas, he argued.During the most recent round of credit rating statements, ratings agencies had acknowledged that South Africa had delivered on many of the promises it had made. The strength of the country s institutions (an important consideration in maintaining an investment grade rating) was highlighted last year and government had shown commitment and ability to cut spending or consolidate where it was required, he said. We are more confident this year that we are on the right path in terms of preserving our credit rating and possibly improving it over the next three years. Coleman added that while global economic improvements were helpful, it was important that South Africa had to become a more attractive foreign direct investment destination. The country was a highly attractive portfolio investment destination with high levels of liquidity on the JSE, deep capital markets and a liquid currency, which attracted portfolio investors, hedge funds and institutional investors to invest though South Africa in the African market in general. But the more we solve some of those regulatory problems, the more we solve our stability, confidence and momentum around South Africa the more we are going to be interesting for foreign direct investment out of the United States. 