SIKI MGABADELI: Time now for our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.Today we are speaking to Thebe Ikalafeng, chairman of Brand Finance Africa, and he takes us through his journeyTHEBE IKALAFENG: You know, we do work hard in Africa. If anything, our South Africans are probably the hardest working people and we work hard, not necessarily always smart, but we work very, very hard.Of course there are challenges that we do have on our continent. Asians are probably among the highest savers, and the Japanese, for example. Americans are probably among the least savers and we are like the Americans in the rest of the continent because of how we save as South Africans.How we save as Africans is we invest in relationships, we invest in the future, we are community in our thinking. That s why, for example, ideas of stokvels, ideas of those type of things they are a communal way of how we save because we do not have enough disposable income to be able to say I will put away 10% every month, or 15% every month, because more often than not we are living from hand to mouth.Now, if you look at the world of branding and products and services, for example, you see some innovations like pay-as-you-go, which is an MTN concept. Even the smaller packages of toothpaste, of sugar, and all those those were all innovated in emerging markets, particularly in the Africas and the Indias, because they came to the realisation that we do not have enough money to last the month. We&#8217;ve got enough money to last the day because we work for today.So we need to get to a point as a continent, and as Africans of course, to a time when we start owning a lot of what we create. Then we&#8217;ll be able to make enough money to be able to save.But we don t own much. We own diamond mines in South Africa okay, it&#8217;s different now because it&#8217;s in Botswana but in general, more often than not, we send out the diamonds to London. They come back, they are more expensive than when we sent them out. And our money can only take us to a certain point.TUMISANG NDLOVU: That needs to change.THEBE IKALAFENG: And we are the ones we&#8217;ve been waiting for.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Now, do you remember being taught about the handling of money at a young age?THEBE IKALAFENG: [Laughing] Growing up I did the things that I needed to do to earn money. I used to sell fruit, I used to sell Magwenya le snoek [fat cakes and snoek fish]. I used to do work in gardens, I used to work in furniture shops. So as a person what I learnt at a young age is if you want something you have to go and earn it. So you have to go and work for it and then earn it.I learnt those lessons that have stuck with me forever. I&#8217;ve never, ever been a person who says: Please give me. I&#8217;ve always been the person who goes out to try and go get it.TUMISANG NDLOVU: Well done.THEBE IKALAFENG: And that s what I did. I&#8217;m thinking of when I was 14, 15, doing gardening on weekends, taking my R2 which I used to earn and then doing a lay-by for a camera, for a suitcase, for a blanket. I remember those so well.And I see myself later, when I was living in the US, I was telling someone the other day my first expensive watch I bought in my first year in the US. And then it cost $1 500. I still think today $1 500 sounds like a lot of money.TUMISANG NDLOVU: It is a lot!THEBE IKALAFENG: But that I did 25 years ago in the US. The way I bought it I waited for it to go on sale and got it for 50%, and then I bought it in an account and I paid it off with my stipend slowly. So these are the same lessons that I learnt when I was younger.SIKI MGABADELI: That s Thebe Ikalafeng, chairman of Brand Finance Africa.