If you are in the low- to middle-income market and in the process of buying a new home, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has offered you some relief.From March 1, properties that are valued at R900 000 or less will not be liable for transfer duty, a tax that is levied on the value of any property that is acquired. On Wednesday, Gordhan in his budget speech increased the threshold on the value of properties that are exempt from the transfer duty from R750 000 to R900 000 or by 20%.The National Treasury has been offering relief for low- to middle-income consumers since 2015 when it took the step to raise the threshold for properties exempt from transfer duties from R600 000 to R750 000. This was the first time home buyers were awarded transfer duty relief since 2011.To put the relief into context, buyers of a property valued at R900 000 under the old reform would fork out a transfer duty of R4 500, while no duty applies under Gordhan s proposal. The transfer duty is derived from the difference between the property value (R900 000) and specified threshold plus 3% (R900 000 minus R750 000 plus 3% see table below).Although the new transfer duty is good news for the affordable housing market, those in the top-end residential market continue to be whacked by higher taxes. Higher-income tax earners are also slapped with the introduction of a new marginal tax rate of 45% for those earning more than R1.5 million per annum.Market watchers have described rising taxes for higher-income consumers including the transfer duty as nothing more than a simple wealth tax as the government continues to look for ways to grow its tax revenue base.However, Herschel Jawitz CEO of Jawitz Properties says the R4 500 saving (as demonstrated above) is a meaningful amount for the affordable housing market, which will enable prospective homebuyers to pay towards other transaction costs related to buying a property. Very often first-time buyers qualify from an affordability point of view but don t have enough for the transaction fees or deposit to buy a property. This will make a difference, he says.Pam Golding Property CEO Dr Andrew Golding supports Jawitz view adding that the affordable housing market is a key driver of South Africa s residential property market. Golding expects more first-time buyers to enter the housing market, which presents residential property developers opportunities to deliver more sectional title units.South Africa s house prices have been riding out the perennial slump since the 2008 global financial crisis. Underscoring this is that house prices have barely kept up with inflation over the past five years. National nominal house prices (before inflation is factored in) have been decreasing as they rose by 5% in 2016, which is slower than the 7.2% and 6.5% for 2014 and 2015 respectively.You don t have look far for reasons behind the declining house price growth: an economy growing at less than 1% and waning consumer confidence. Industry players expect house prices to accelerate by 5% to 6% in nominal terms in 2017.Golding says with the country s sluggish economic growth rate expected to be 1.3% for 2017 South Africa needs to encourage investment among local and international high net worth investors. Setting the bar at a tax rate of 45% for those with a taxable income over R1.5 million per annum sends a less than encouraging signal to high net worth investors, and may dampen sentiment in luxury homes in the upper price band, he says.Already the cost of home ownership in South Africa remains high, with homeowners burdened with rising property taxes, sectional title levies and higher basic utility costs, says the chairman of the Seeff property group Samuel Seeff.Seeff adds that higher transfer duty might take the liquidity out of the top-end property market. As we have seen over the last year, the higher transfer duty impacted sales negatively. The negative sentiment also meant that despite a weak rand, fewer foreigners bought property despite the fact that we welcomed record numbers of foreign visitors over the summer, says Seeff.