The diesel tax refund system and its administration are set for an overhaul to address anomalies in the system and to find more equitable rules and administrative procedures.National Treasury and the South African Revenue Service (Sars) recently published its discussion document on the refund system and how it considers addressing concerns about the current system.One of the major criticisms has been the increasingly onerous compliance requirements to qualify for the refund. Treasury has also acknowledged that some eligible beneficiaries have been excluded from the system while others appear to be making disproportionate refund claims.According to the discussion document, electricity s (Eskom s) share of the diesel refunds increased from 3% in 2010-11 to 60% in 2015-16.The share of the country s economic growth and employment drivers showed significant declines in the share of refunds over the same period. The share of agriculture, forestry and fishing declined from 46% to 11%, and the share of mining and quarrying from 45% to 24% over the same period.The diesel refund system was introduced in 2000 and offers full or partial relief from the fuel levy, the Road Accident Fund and excise duty.It is aimed at protecting the competitiveness of South African producers in agriculture, forestry and fishing and the mining sectors by reducing these road-related levies for non-road users.Interim amendments have been implemented while the current system is being reviewed. These include the qualification for refunds by ceded mining rights holders, contract and small-scale farmers in sugarcane production, ongoing mining rehabilitation and a reduction of the fuel levy benefit rate from 100% to 50% for peaking electricity generation plants.Des Kruger, consultant at law firm Webber Wentzel, says the proposed changes are in the main positive. They address to a large degree some of the existing issues being experienced both by the authorities and qualifying diesel users.He says the proposal to base the entitlement to refunds on the specific activity as opposed to status of the user is especially welcomed. This will address the contracting issue being faced by small farmers where the refund is available, but the contractor is not the qualifying user. This will now change as one would look at the activity rather than the status of the user, says Kruger.The South African Institute of Tax Professionals (SAIT) has welcomed the opportunity for role-players to participate in the reform process.SAIT head of tax policy Erika de Villiers hopes there will be a balance between the need to enforce compliance and practical constraints on the ground. Many taxpayers who are dependent on the diesel refund to be globally competitive are finding the compliance burden almost prohibitive. A major concern raised last year was the fact that the diesel refund was to be limited to operational mines, and refunds associated with rehabilitation post-operations would not be allowed.Mining companies have been concerned in recent years by a view expressed by some Sars officials that rehabilitation activities are not primary mining activities. This concern was laid to rest by way of the interim amendments which now explicitly include rehabilitation activities up to the point that a mine closure certificate is issued as a primary mining activity.Additional recordkeeping requirements proposed in the discussion document have already been met with some trepidation.Treasury proposed that two logbooks be kept. The one will reflect the receiving and dispensing of diesel at each storage facility at every primary production site and another will provide a detailed record of the usage by the claimant of the dispensed diesel. The dispensing of diesel is one of the greatest risks in the diesel refund system. The diesel should therefore be delivered to the physical site where the qualifying primary production will take place and independent logbooks should be kept for each storage facility at such sites, Treasury says.Diesel refunds will only be allowed in respect of diesel dispensed from storage facilities formally on record with Sars to diesel-powered equipment and vehicles also formally on record with Sars.Kruger says there is some confusion as to what documentation (logbooks) are required. The proposal is to set out the requirements more clearly, namely documentation (logbooks) recording the &#8220;receiving and dispensing of diesel at each storage facility&#8221;, and documentation (logbooks) that records the usage of such diesel. These requirements seem reasonable to me, and in any case were arguably required under the existing regime. Importantly, the intention is to develop the logbook requirements on an industry basis after consultation with the industry. In addition to logbooks, claimants will be obliged to maintain proper service and repair records for such machinery and vehicles to prevent ghost claims.De Villiers says these record-keeping requirements should be carefully considered . The diesel refund compliance should as far as possible be focused on financial data as opposed to physical measurement of diesel used.Companies already use sophisticated systems of internal control to prevent misuse and losses to the company. Consideration should be given to placing reliance on these systems to prove the diesel refund compliance.Ideally, the diesel refund should become claimable as soon as the diesel has been purchased (with the purpose) to be used for qualifying activities.It is often impossible to measure the diesel left in the tank of equipment such as a vessel or underground mining vehicle at the end of the month.In the case of taxpayers who are entitled to claim diesel refunds on multi-purpose vehicles (such as bakkies, trucks and SUVs), a different system may be required.Treasury has also proposed a standalone diesel refund administration system , which will be separate from the Value Added Tax system that is currently processing the refund claims. Small producers who are not registered for VAT are inadvertently excluded from the diesel refund system. Kruger, however, is not in favour of delinking the refund system from the VAT system. At present the refund is seamless in that the refunds are claimed through the VAT system without the need to submit copious documentation and to wait for approval. This will obviously not be the case if a separate refund administration is established, he says.Written comments on the proposed interim and future reforms of the diesel refund system must be submitted by May 15 to Treasury or Sars. 