This is the transcription of a recorded interview.WARREN THOMPSON: Good day, I m Warren Thompson from Moneyweb and joining me on the podcast today is Portfolio Manager for the Prescient China Balance Fund, Liang Du. Good to have you with us Liang.LAING DU: Good morning Warren.WARREN THOMPSON: Right, so the last time we spoke to you, you were just getting ready to take your place and move across to China. I see that you ve been living in Shanghai for the last year or so. We wanted to really understand, has living in the country changed your perception of the Chinese markets and the economy as you understand it, or is it very much just confirmed what you were seeing from the outside looking in?LAING DU: I think the interesting thing is that being in China on the ground, the thing that really gets you is just the scale of everything. The country is absolutely massive, the amount of people is absolutely crazy. We went to a lot of the tier 1, tier 2 cities. Unfortunately we haven t had the chance to really go to the rust belt, to the really poor areas, the rural areas, but if you look at the tier 1, tier 2 cities, it probably houses over 300 million, 400 million people.Last year was a great year in terms of the economy in China and I think on the second thing that we came across very clearly when you live there, is that the environment is completely stable. I think that is the theme that comes across very strongly. So if people are worried about the political situation or riots or all of that, that s completely not the case. The environment at the moment is that the people are wealthier than they ve ever been in the last probably 100 years and generally the mood on the ground is that they re supportive of the government and things are coming around quite nicely.WARREN THOMPSON: So you talk about these tier 1, tier 2 cities, and then just sketch that out for us. As I understand it most of these cities, these large cities, the Shanghai s etc, are on the, what you call the Eastern seaboard, the Eastern part of the country?LAING DU: That s correct. But basically there are four tier 1 cities. So these are Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Tianjin, and then you ve got a whole lot &#8230; on the Eastern seaboard. That s the old money, the old block, we talk about the Shanghai of Guangzhou, that s the Eastern seaboard. We look at the tier 3 cities or what the Chinese government tried to do was that too many people migrated to tier 1 cities. That put a massive strain on tier 1 city s infrastructure. The tier 1 cities are housing between 20 to 30 million people, so what s really happening is that these cities are absolutely massive, they re under strain, so they ve developed these tier 2 cities like Tianjin, Guangzhou, Chongqing, etc. They re still massive, you talk about housing probably for 20 million people and people moved there, industries were better. Guangzhou and Chongqing are the middle of China, something like 420 of the Fortune 500 is there where labour is much cheaper than on the Eastern seaboard, so essentially now the Eastern seaboard is all services; financial services, lawyers, accountancy, high tech IT, venture capital, etc, whereas the middle of the China and the Northern China is more industry, farming as well as old school manufacturing.WARREN THOMPSON: So from that perspective, we talk about the transition of China from being this manufacturing-dominated, infrastructure-led economy. You re seeing the emergence of China in services and high-end manufacturing, as well as massive capital formation; the banking, the stock exchanges (associated with First World economies) &#8230; Is that certainly what you are seeing as well?LAING DU: Definitely, but on the ground there, I think I surprised myself at how much Chinese stuff I bought, that s the driving thing, but this year I m talking about electronics, as well &#8211; and very surprisingly, I almost bought a Chinese car. Very surprising. So the rate of improvement is unbelievable, they re pushing boundaries, so for example, companies like Huawei are making really, top-end hardware, they re making huge amounts of R&amp;D. They re making moves that you previously associate with Apple and Samsung.They re taking risks, [paying] masses of attention to detail and making huge amounts of investment, and this is helping companies come right. So I think that s very interesting and they re doing it with exceptionally competitive pricing [and are] starting to win design awards, whereas previously China was all about copying or producing knock-offs. So it is a shift; the IT industry for example, especially FinTech, is probably far ahead than anywhere else in the world. Chinese people are very comfortable with money over the internet such as FinTech. It s amazing, you do everything from your cell phone. You don t even need your wallet or your cards, everything is done off the cell phone.WARREN THOMPSON: That s very interesting. So this&#8230; it sounds very upbeat and you said the economy had a very good year last year. Just tell us how things are growing there, are you still seeing the big interest infrastructure projects as well, to cater for all these people, or is there still a lot of migration happening, and how big is that services component of the economy now?LAING DU: Every year [infrastructure] services become bigger and bigger than the services of manufacturers [since] about three, four years ago. I think on the manufacturing side, what you ve seen, let s say from 2012 to 2015, for example, CPI has deflated for four of five years, and last year was the first year of strong banking industry integration. So basically the excess capacity tried to work itself out of the system.If you look at PMI for example, services PMI was always high, and went higher last year, but manufacturers came back above 50. My own economic indicators also show the same thing. So that s the good news, the good news of last year economically was that it was fundamentally a great year. I think that unfortunately a lot of that was driven by huge property rallies last year. Last year we had a massive property rally, mostly concentrated in tier 1 cities, so a lot of it is just tier 1 cities. But the price value rather than that of construction was all the Tier 1 city went up by 30% to 40% and the reality to tier 1 cities was that there s no lag whatsoever. Every year there s very big development and 20 or 30 developments a year in a tier 1 city. And so what happens is that when the demand goes up, then prices go a bit crazy. That s the scary side of that; there was a massive property boom that made a lot of people very wealthy and they are spending a lot on the economy for now.On the brighter side, the government abandoned the growth target, which is the best news I&#8217;ve ever heard. So I understand that when [President] Xi Jinping came to power, he promised the people that China would become a middle-income economy by 2020. What that implies is that China has to grow from here on out at about 6.5% p.a. in order to hit that target. So Xi Jinping to come out and say okay, we re abandoning the growth path, essentially means that he s recognising that he may not be able to keep his promise. But the good thing about that is it means there is no more pressure to waste resources. It s a realisation that a market-based economy is there.Last year what did show is that they&#8217;re getting more comfortable with the fact that anything they do must make the economy work better over the long run. The economy [will sort itself out]. If there&#8217;s systematic crisis, of course the government will step in but until then the government won t do anything. WARREN THOMPSON: What was that growth number last year?LAING DU: Last year it was sitting at about 6.6%, 6.7% for the fourth quarter so that s what we re sitting at&#8230;WARREN THOMPSON: And what were they expecting this year?LAING DU: They were probably expecting between 6% and 6.5%. [But] they&#8217;re not going to be fixated, they re not going to do anything unless there&#8217;s systematic risk.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay so they&#8217;re moving, they&#8217;re liberalising and standing left and letting the market determine more if I m hearing you correctly?LAING DU: That s absolutely right.WARREN THOMPSON: Turning our attention now to the financial markets, how did they perform last year and where do you see them from a valuation perspective at the moment?LAING DU: The Chinese equity market was the worst-performing equity market in the world last year. The Bloomberg articles were saying that the ten-year low is despite the fact that the ETF market has grown probably 10 times in the last 10 years. So it s really not a place that most investors want to be bullish, but for us it s actually quite good. In 2014, just before the 100% rally, China was sitting at a valuation of PEs at about 9 before it sees about 8 and half of the rest of the world. That was the last time China had a massive rally.But in today it s not that, today you&#8217;re talking about PEs of about 12.5 going forward and probably about a 30% discount to most markets in the world. So there&#8217;s a margin of safety but not a once in a lifetime opportunity. The only thing that perhaps might have to keep their minds is that globally they ve had a bull market for about eight years. That s the only thing that holding me back to say actually go wild at it because from PEs of 12.5 in a stable economy is something that is negative temperament wise, usually gives you extremely high returns going forward. But the only thing that comes into my mind is the fact that the global environment did have a very long bull market already.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay, how did your fund go and where are you invested in at the moment?LAING DU: Our fund has been extremely successful over the past 3.5 years, including last year when the market was down 15% in US dollars. Last year, our fund is only down 6%. So what that means that in terms of Asia as a location, we re 3rd out of 1 174 funds and the nice thing about investing in China is that the alpha generated in China is there. There&#8217;s a lot of let s call it dumb money in China. In the Chinese market today, 70% of the volume is traded by retail investors. So our entire investment philosophy is to take advantage of the mistakes that they make. We don t get too stressed around sectors, we don t try to get IT at a PE of 90 cheaper than steel at a PE of 5. What we do try to do is to stay within that with the retail sector they make a lot of mistakes. They get way over bullish about ridiculous companies, ridiculous quotes and vice versa.What s in this sector is that investors make all sorts of mistakes and we try to look through that and take advantage of that. For example, if you bought a 65, 35 ETF passive fund in China, you would&#8217;ve done about 20% in US dollars. Our fund has done 60% over the same period of time. And that doesn t come from let s say one or two big bets, it doesn t come from wild guesses. At any point in time there&#8217;s obviously 110, 170 stocks that deliver alpha at a rate of about 6.5% per year. And I just think the opportunity in China [is there] because of the fact that there aren t that many institutional investors there yet, the market is not efficient, it s very funny, it s very liquid, there&#8217;s lots of participation, there are a lot of people in it but the market is not efficient, not smart yet and that s what makes the strategy. So over the long term as I said, PE of 12.5 is a very safe, you almost can t find a disaster investment scenario of a PE of 12.5 over a 10-year period. And at the same time if you can generate alpha on top of that we still look very good.WARREN THOMPSON: Just one last question, do you consider the Chinese market less efficient than our own market?LAING DU: Definitely. I have found it massively inefficient. Mainly things that are technical but very simple things like for example the pricing of futures where they it s a stock index for example, South Africa maybe will have 3 or 4 opportunities in a year where the mispricing lasts for 5 minutes or 30 minutes for example, whereas in China, you&#8217;re probably going to have 60 opportunities in a year and the mispricing will last a day or more. So what you find is that it s a very liquid market but it s far less efficient than South Africa and what people don t realise is that South African markets are actually surprisingly institutionally driven. Almost 70% to 80% of the volume is driven by institutional investors, whether local or global. So there&#8217;s a lot of very clever people in the market whereas China is retail dominated.WARREN THOMPSON: Okay we re going to have to leave it there Laing. We hope you stay in touch as you continue your investment journey in China.