Finance minister Pravin Gordhan delivered a budget speech that resonated with president Zuma s recent State of the Nation Address.Both focused on the acceleration of economic growth to the benefit of all South Africans.But despite the similar theme, it is startling how divergent the respective tones, justification and terminology was.Zuma delivered a rather provocative message of &#8220;radical economic transformation&#8221;. This message delivered to a half-empty House in the absence of the DA and the EFF was labelled populist and an extension of a broader political agenda.In stark contrast, Gordhan s message of &#8220;inclusive growth&#8221; appeared rational, logical and authoritative. More importantly, his message which included several references to the president was not tainted with an obvious political agenda and will appeal to virtually all sectors of the population, including the private sector.Confident and daringGordhan feels strongly about the need to transform the economy in a way that uplifts all South Africans and did so long before the term radical economic transformation became trendy. This deeply-held belief was evident during the press conference that he and his team held prior to the budget address on Wednesday. Gordhan appeared relaxed, confident and typically outspoken and this may have enhanced his message.Nearly all answers he gave to pretty fierce questions, reverted back to the principle of how economic growth must benefit all South Africans. He even tried to soften the impact of the term radical in Zuma s references and said it merely referred to the underlying cause of poverty and inequality, which is the inability of poor people to escape poverty.Gordhan warned against populist rhetoric, and said the terms radical economic transformation, transformation and inclusive growth are synonyms. We need to get beyond slogans. They sound nice, but you need to ask: what does it mean? The big issue for South Africa, and in other countries around the world, is who benefits from transformation . You cannot have a small elite group pocketing all the benefits of economic growth That does not create a sustainable economy or sustainable society. Powerful words indeed. He proposed that South Africa should formulate a new Charter of Economic Rights to supplement the Bill of Rights. Again, his approach to the formulation of this charter is very much bottom up. The president holds a similar view. But his is top down. That is very different.Fiscal positionThis inclusive growth message was delivered on the back of the national budget, which paints a pretty detailed picture of the economy. It shows a fiscal position (budget deficit of 3.4% in 2016/17 and 3.1% in 2017/18) that under the current economic circumstances could only be described as acceptable . The budget also projects continued pedestrian economic growth, which means that the ideal of accelerated inclusive growth is no easy ask. It will also play into the hands of those who support the more populist views regarding transformation and other policies to reduce poverty and inequality.Budget itemsThere were no individual bombshells in the budget, but this has been the case since Trevor Manuel became finance minister in the 1990s and instituted the medium-term budget policy statement.However, the biggest red flag remains rising government debt. The current debt amounts to R2.2 trillion or 47% of GDP and is set to increase to R2.7 trillion or 48% of GDP by 2020. This is massive debt and it cannot continue to increase at a rate of R150 billion a year.The new 45% tax rate for those 103 000 people earning more than R1.5 million was expected. Although this increase will not add a significant burden to these individuals, it sends a message that government is addressing inequality this is probably more valuable than the R4.4 billion it will contribute to the fiscus.The taxpayers who should feel the most aggrieved are the so-called middle class, those who earn between R500 000 and R1.5 million. Treasury did little to adjust the tax tables for inflation and this means that these tax payers will pay R12 billion more than if the brackets had been adjusted to fully accommodate inflation.The biggest surprise (or was it, considering who was delivering the speech?) was that the word nuclear was not mentioned once in the finance minister&#8217;s speech.Economic growthFrom both Zuma and Gordhan s speeches, it is clear that South Africa is desperate for economic growth, growth that will benefit all spheres of our society.This will, however, not happen by itself. It can also not be ignited by an institution such as the Treasury. It needs to come from a collective effort of all stakeholders, starting with the top leadership of the country.Unfortunately, the current trust deficit within government and between government and its stakeholders means there is little chance of achieving a common vision for change. It is critical that this relationship is repaired and that both local and international investment accelerates.I firmly believe that this will happen when these captains of industry listen to Gordhan s version of how to do it, rather than the president s.What next?This is a good question. As much as Gordhan tried to shy away from political statements, he was peppered with questions during the press conference regarding his future as finance minister, and what would happen if he was fired.Although he batted away these questions, he did state that his removal may have a negative impact on the Treasury as a state institution, mostly due to the perpetual uncertainty that surrounds it.But despite the depressed growth outlook and the political clouds hanging over Gordhan, his deputy Mcebisi Jonas and Zuma, South Africa is in a much better place than February 24 last year when Gordhan tabled the previous budget.Within this context, Wednesday s boring budget &#8211; devoid of surprises &#8211; was the best budget in many years.