Last week decision makers from key areas of the South African mining industry gathered in Cape Town for the annual Mining Indaba. I attended, partly to observe the politics surrounding the industry, and of course to take advantage of the networking opportunity the event presents.On the first day, the politics proved to be more exciting than last year. In the audience former President, Thabo Mbeki was there and later I saw former finance minister Trevor Manuel. Speaking of ANC leaders who were once state officials I found myself thinking about the current state of the politics in mining. Especially the new emphasis on &#8220;transformation of the sector , yet this new emphasis is hardly harmoniously accepted by all.For the last three years, the ruling party has, in its self-proclaimed progress on policies been talking about a new term Radical economic policy, a slogan that has been repeated at many government gatherings, mentioned in speeches, interviews or debates by ministers representing the state. I was present when Minister Zwane during a media briefing after his speech said that &#8220;the Mining Charter is one of the tools the government will use to implement radical economic transformation&#8221;.Leaving aside this new and already popular slogan, what should be noteworthy to Moneyweb readers is that economic transformation is nothing new to the ANC, it has been a permanent feature in the ruling party s deliberations on policy formulation and implementation. What I found interesting though, is how in the last seven years, transformation of the mining sector has taken centre stage, perhaps more so through the state push and changes of the highly contested MPRDA and Mining Charter.As with many of you, and maybe the odd mining executive new to the industry, there remains this vexing question: why is government obsessed with transformation in mining above other sectors? For instance, the financial sector has faced far less scrutiny when it comes to ownership and workplace transformation and general transformation. After all, we are talking about a sector that comprises more than R6 trillion in assets, contributing 10.5% of the gross domestic product of the economy annually, employing 3.9% of the employed, and contributing at least 15% of corporate income tax*.Even at the heart of the turmoil of the financial crisis of 2008-09, that sector received praise and support from an unlikely person. President Jacob Zuma in his 2011 Sona expressed being pleased with the performance of our financial sector. It has proven to be remarkably resilient in the face of the recent financial crisis and the global economic meltdown&#8221;.Is the softness on the financial sector symptomatic of a ruling political elite s lack of a coherent plan? Is there no quick access to wealth in the financial sector? Or is it because the sector, which follows global best practice, is impossible to target? Could it be that the ruling elite have seen first-hand how South Africa was protected by its sound framework for financial regulation and well-regulated institutions, which ensured that potential risks (the 2008-09 financial crisis) were anticipated and action taken to mitigate them.What then propels the dog-with-a-bone type determination in pushing for transformation &#8211; especially ownership and goods procurement &#8211; in the mining industry?The reality is that over the last two decades, the ruling party has consistently betrayed whatever hope the people had placed in it, if (a) land redistribution and (b) more participation by the ordinary man in the complex business of mining.You would have to be completely high with the heady aroma of ignorance to see that BEE as a remedial tool has resulted in a few politically connected individuals becoming mining magnates at the cost of real transformation. The real worry for the current ruling elite has to be that the mining boom has passed without more among them benefitting. And so this new found drive for transformation of mine ownership is more about politics than desire for social good and correcting past injustices. If it is the latter, woe to them, for they do not see the unintended but very probable effects upon the next generation of what they are now creating.For the record, transforming the economy is not new in our country s politics or something that the current administration championed. As far back as the late-1990s, all government s plans and major policy blueprints have made talk about the coming economic transformation an everyday reality for blacks and society at large. *By 2007, ANC 52nd National Congress resolution on economic transformation included transforming the structures of production and ownership of the mining sector. Our programme must also deepen the linkages of the mineral sector to the national economy through beneficiation of these resources and creating supplier and service industries around the minerals sector&#8221;.The ruling party we observe is humongous and impotent at the same time. In spite of the enormity of resources and information at its disposal, it has thus far, tendentiously redistributed more upwards (in other words those who were rich have become richer). It is fundamentally incapable of alleviating the effects of social discrimination or to lift people out of poverty through its policies. These are serious failings. In the current political arena it is the EFF taking the spotlight away from the state because it talks to what the people want to hear on land and mining. In trying to keep up, the ruling party through the state has now come up with radical economic transformation. In the absence of strong, practical and implementable policies on how transforming the economy was supposed to unfold, the current ruling elite has no choice but to single out an industry they will use as test pilot to correct their shortcomings.The ruling party is fast sinking into utter irrelevance, and in the long run this is a threat to the luscious perks that came with being in power.Clearly, to face this threat and to launder their reputation, the mining industry has became government s key focus.It is rather hard to sympathise with an industry that is seen as historically exploitative of black people, and which justified the eras of forced removals and land deprivation. With its history of displacement, its hunger for cheap labour, its pioneering and deepening of the prevalence of migratory workers, the famed Hut tax that ensured more black men worked in the mines and towns, the mining industry has a lot to answer for. However, as the mining event of the year ends, I wonder what will happen if radical transformation doesn t happen the way that government envisages it will, and for a moment I see a dark storm headed our way.* 52nd (2007) ANC Congress Resolutions documents: Resolution on Economic Transformation.* Treasury s Report: A safer financial sector to serve South Africa better.