ING LAMPRECHT: In what is widely regarded as Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s toughest budget to date, the minister has the unenviable task of balancing government s books, without compromising economic growth.And despite warnings that South Africa s investment grade rating still hangs very much in the balance, there s pressure to spend more money on higher education, a proposed nuclear build programme and calls for radical economic transformation.My name is Ing Lamprecht and to discuss Wednesday s budget, I m joined in studio by senior executive for tax at the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, Pieter Faber. Thanks for your time today, Pieter.PIETER FABER: Thank you very much for having me, Ing .ING LAMPRECHT: Pieter, what do you think will be the minister s single biggest challenge on Wednesday?PIETER FABER: Well, I think there s actually so many of them, but I think to a large extent there are two. One is making sure that he receives enough income to actually pay for all the matters you ve already mentioned and secondly I think quite importantly, even though he has less control over it, is to start reigning in expenditure on the other hand. So previously we ve seen him putting soft caps etc. on expenditure as well as rolling out certain programmes whereby he expects the executives to spend less in departments. Unfortunately these are just guidelines and not necessarily enforceable at National Treasury. So I think those are the two main sides it s actually addressing both the income and the expenditure side.ING LAMPRECHT: Pieter, at this point, I think everyone has accepted that we will pay more tax, the question really is how the minister will raise the R28 billion-odd of additional taxes that he needs. Now personal income tax is by far the largest source of tax revenue for government, accounting for about 36% of the total. To what extent do you expect personal income taxes to increase?PIETER FABER: Well I think they definitely will increase. The question is by how much. So we might see an increase in the top marginal rates again and maybe lessened creep where they prepare for an inflationary adjustment by lessening that considerably from the medium tiers right up.What is however becoming quite clear and that we saw last year is that what we call tax buoyancy you know the ability of a specific tax sector and for the first time I think in quite some time we saw the buoyancy in the personal income tax drop quite a lot, which to a large extent talks to the economic growth outlook as well as the employment outlook and the negative employment growth representing the lessened ability of extracting more and more income taxes out of that specific tax type.ING LAMPRECHT: Do you expect to see the introduction of a super tax bracket of say 45% for individuals earning more than R1 million?PIETER FABER: Well I think everything is quite likely at the moment. I do not see the minister going extreme either way. I think personally that we will probably see a mixture of taxes being introduced both increases and adjustments to current taxes as [well as] potentially also starting to introduce new taxes. For example we are aware that Sars is preparing systems for the introduction of the gambling tax in 2018. So even though that doesn t have a direct impact for this year, it might come in 2018 be one of a multitude of adjustments.I mean we ve also seen the progressive adjustments to the CGT inclusion rate, income taxes. We ve seen since minister Nene s use thereof the general fuel levy being used as an income generator, so small adjustments to various things and as much discussed in the public eye whether we will or will not see a VAT increase to try and make up the R28 billion shortfall moving up to close to R50 billion in the next three years.ING LAMPRECHT: We will come back to some of those in a moment. National Treasury has been busy with a process of retirement reform over the past few years and since March last year you can deduct up to 27.5% of contributions to a retirement fund for tax purposes. But a lot of people are very critical about the fact that only 25% of your contributions to a retirement fund can be invested offshore in terms of Regulation 28 . Any chance we will see some relaxation in that regard?PIETER FABER: Look from a policy perspective, I do not think we will probably see relaxation on the monetary account. I think to a large extent we are still trying to keep the currency fluctuation stable and where we have political uncertainty like we currently have leading up to elections in 2019, it leads to a lot of currency fluctuations and uncertainty where people may want to take out a lot more money to hedge their accounts. So I think there we will not see necessarily any further relaxation and rather to compel funds to maintain a larger portion of their investments in South Africa. ING LAMPRECHT: You mentioned the capital gains tax inclusion rate just now. What are your expectations with regard to dividends tax and capital gains tax ?PIETER FABER: I don t expect dividends tax necessarily to go up. I mean the STC rate at 10% was increased to 15% already and where we had that alignment the idea was to make sure that extractions from companies through companies taxes as well as dividends equates to there and thereabouts the 40% or 41% currently of what it would cost you to take it out as a salary so that we don t have any arbitrage between the two. So I don t think necessarily we will see a differential or an increase necessarily in dividends tax. [With] the capital inclusion rates however, there seems to be a lot more appetite in continuing to increase those and even though the initial introduction back in 2001, the whole idea of having a low inclusion rate was so that we don t do indexation or essentially cater for inflation, so that we don t tax ourselves just on inflation rather than on asset growth and that is still a concern that if we are going to go to a 100% inclusion rate, that we are then essentially creating negative trends towards capital investments by applying a punitive tax rate to growth where we are essentially taxing inflation on assets.ING LAMPRECHT: The Davis Tax Committee released its report on Estate Duty in August last year. Do you expect to see any of their recommendations around estate duty in the Budget?PIETER FABER: I think there will be at most minor refinements. I think to a large extent we saw the introduction of the new Section 7C on trusts as one of the call it the major anti-avoidance [measures]. So to a large extent I think that has been the prerogative of National Treasury is minimising the avoidance of estate duty through planning rather than necessarily adjusting estate duty itself at the moment even though I know they are looking at it but I do think if there are going to be refinements, it is rather on the anti-avoidance space where people are avoiding estate duty.ING LAMPRECHT: Following French economist Thomas Piketty s earlier visit to South Africa, there has been lots of talk about a wealth tax , but we haven t seen the Davis Committee s report on this, at least the public hasn t seen it. Do you think it s premature to expect an announcement in this regard?PIETER FABER: Yes, I do think that given the complexities of introducing a wealth tax at the moment and the fact that there hasn t really been much public consultation I do not really see that being implemented in this budget. If we see something we might just hear that it is under investigation or consideration but I do not expect an announcement of implementation in the short term.ING LAMPRECHT: In an environment of sub-par economic growth one would ideally want to increase taxes such as VAT which you mentioned earlier, rather than direct taxes like personal income and corporate income tax. What is the likelihood of a VAT increase ?PIETER FABER: I think twelve months ago we probably would have said nothing. In the mid-term budget speech, I think the minister has indicated that they might be a bit more pragmatic and given as I said the fact that globally corporate taxes have been decreasing, which means a corporate tax increase will further hamper our progression and even personal income tax buoyancy does not look that great. So once again we have to look at what are the taxes which we believe will actually generate the money, so not just money on paper, but actual collections. I think the one thing the mid-term budget speech did indicate to us is a lot of these taxes are coming under pressure. We saw a lot of under collections in all the various taxes and the question is what is the most reliable one to actually generate this seeing that we have a negative growth in employment etc., VAT is probably at the forefront of ensuring that government actually collects what they budget to collect and as I ve said, we ve already applied things like the general fuel levy to collect these, which is a lot more regressive than VAT. So even those proponents who argue against the VAT rate, we are actually using more regressive instruments currently to actually collect taxes at the moment.ING LAMPRECHT: But of course it is also a political question and we are not quite sure although we know that Cosatu is opposed to a VAT increase we are not quite sure what is happening with the internal power struggle within the ANC and also about the minister s position, whether he will remain the minister of finance for some time to come and I guess that will also play a part in a decision to increase the VAT rate or not?PIETER FABER: Well all taxes are to a large extent the prerogative of the executive on policy. I think National Treasury has been good in keeping their policies quite clear as to where they want to go and therefore we didn t see much deviation from minister Nene to minister Gordhan in the interim. In respect of how we go forward, be it with minister Gordhan or not, [the hope] is that we do have that policy certainty as to where National Treasury want to go.ING LAMPRECHT: We ve seen signals from Donald Trump in the US as well as Theresa May in the UK that corporate tax will be cut. So at least in the developed world there seems to be a move to reduce the tax burden of corporates. What do you expect to see in South Africa?PIETER FABER: Well I think it is a different debate. As you ve said, to a large extent it comes down to policy, which is driven by politics etc. The debate globally has been the question between government investment versus private sector investment and I think in both those countries the governments in those countries have decided that private sector investment through reduced taxes will result in better economic benefits in those countries and the question I think in South Africa is whether we ask ourselves the same question. Who is better at investing that money? The private sector or government in getting to government s objectives and that is a question National Treasury in the long term will have to ask themselves in addition to the fact that if you do have a very high corporate tax rate compared to our main trading partners it does make our own businesses start to become uncompetitive as well. ING LAMPRECHT: There has been significant consultation around carbon and sugar taxes , but a number of commentators seem to think that these cans will be kicked down the road. What do you think?PIETER FABER: Well we just quite recently in the last week had the second round of parliamentary debates on the sugar taxes and I think to a large extent parliament just wants to make sure that even though we introduce measures that address a public need that they do so by mitigating any risks and I think even the labour federation Cosatu, where most of the estimates have been quite conservative (between 5 000 to 6 000 job losses) have been quite adamant that even those very small numbers if you consider the larger picture are not acceptable at this moment. So there are various trade-offs.Carbon taxes once again, if you look at some of the revised proposals, they actually affect to a large extent as to who is actually going to pay, a very small minority of big polluters in South Africa, including entities like Eskom and whether they get deferred in the long term we will have to see. I do believe government does have an appetite to start finalising the carbon tax at least and we might see certain announcements in that regard, probably in the budget just to clarify where we are going with carbon tax. ING LAMPRECHT: Pieter, you referred to fuel levies earlier. We ve seen quite significant increases in the fuel levy and sin taxes over the last two years or so. More of the same on Wednesday?PIETER FABER: Personally I do believe as stated that the fuel levy is a very regressive tax. I mean it contributes to one of the biggest expenditure [items] of the poor namely travel and it directly impacts them while it excludes a lot of transactions that the rich use, financial services etc. So it doesn t directly impact necessarily those. It is a difficult thing that we do start getting reliant on something like fuel levies given that we were exploiting a very big and sudden drop in the oil price, but we ve already seen the media reporting hedges been taken at a $100. We ve seen OPEC already agreeing to cut production in 2017, so we do believe that the oil price will start rebounding back to the target market of OPEC to just over between a $100 and $120, which means that government cannot become too reliant on the income being generated from the fuel levy. ING LAMPRECHT: Pieter then just lastly, revenue collection in general has remained buoyant. We ve now seen that maybe it is not as buoyant as it has been in prior years, but there has also been loss of institutional memory at Sars , and questions about political meddling at the revenue service. Do you expect that this will have an impact on revenue collection going forward?PIETER FABER: Well, it is a difficult question as to whether the drop-off in revenue is as a result of inefficiencies etc. rather than a reflection of the state of the economy. I think to a large extent the objective data we have definitely shows to the latter. We cannot expect revenue to continually every year to collect 10% more taxes yet our economy is growing at slightly over 0.1% [2016 estimate 0.4%]. It is not sustainable where we are losing 500 000 jobs in the market. You cannot expect revenue to continually collect more and more and more. So it was inevitable at some stage that we are going to see a quick and fast drop-off in collections reflecting the state of the economy.ING LAMPRECHT: Thanks Pieter. That was senior executive for tax at the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, Pieter Faber.