When the weather is bad and days are short, workers can feel especially cooped up in the office and bogged down in constant contact with other human beings. All the more reason to choose a vacation destination that is so remote and so untouched by modernity that you will feel truly alone. At these 10 places, there&#8217;s no Wi-Fi or bad cell reception, and there&#8217;s very few other humans. So go ahead and turn on that out of office and into the wild notification. Tierra Patagonia, ChileTierra Patagonia, a sleek architectural retreat in Chile.Photographer: David De Vleeschauwer&nbsp;Don t assume that this hotel is high-tech just because of its cutting-edge architecture. Staying here means zero cell phone signal or Wi-Fi in the rooms which are wall-to-wall blonde wood and hand-crafted furnishings. Consider it a benefit rather than a drawback; it ll allow you to focus completely on the stunning Patagonian landscape and the Torres del Paine peaks in the distance. Three day packages from $2 300 per person.Jack s Camp, BotswanaOne of the campaign-style tents at Jack&#8217;s Camp, in the Kalahari Desert.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerMost luxury camps in Africa offer Wi-Fi, even in the tents. But this elegant camp owned by the legendary guide Ralph Bousfield and set deep in the Kalahari salt pans is guaranteed to keep your cell phone off and your wildlife game on. The only downside to your data blackout? Not being able to post those cute meerkat photos until you get home. From $990 per person, per night, all-inclusive.Jamtara Wilderness Camp, IndiaThe kind of non-digitally-connected bliss you can expect at Jamtara Wilderness Camp, in India.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerOne helpful staff member of the romantic Jamtara Wilderness Camp, near tiger-filled Pench National Park in India, told us that if we really wanted cell phone reception, we&#8217;d have to drive a bit, then get out of the car and hold the phone high up in the air. But watch out for curious cats while trying! He said. We politely passed on his offer and cozied up with a G&amp;T under the giant baobab tree to watch the stars. Rooms from $588, all-inclusive.Great Bear Lodge, Vancouver IslandThe floating cabin that anchors Great Bear Lodge, in Vancouver Island.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerPack your binoculars, not your laptop, if you re heading to this cub-filled oasis on Vancouver Island. Mandatory seaplane transfers mean that light packing is mandatory, and there s no cell phone reception or Wi-Fi once you land. Only bears. Lots and lots of bears. Upstairs are simple, yet comfortable rooms all brand-new, with views of the water and wilderness reserve. Downstairs, home-cooked meals and free-flowing local wine are the perfect counterweight to days in the wild. Three night packages from $1 500 per person, all-inclusive.Bahia Bustamante, ArgentinaFormer fishermen&#8217;s cottages were turned into a hotel, now called Bahia Bustamante.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerThe moment you finally lose your diminishing 3G in the northern Chubut region of Argentinean Patagonia, you know you are in for a treat. Here in Bahia Bustamante, you ll find a former seaweed-harvesting village and estancia that has been turned into a quaint hotel, with a handful of fishermen s cottages that now serve as delightful hotel rooms with panoramic Atlantic views. Go watch penguins, whales, and sea lions around the protected, privately owned peninsula on which the estancia is located knowing the only reason to bring your phone is for cute super-slow-mo videos. Three nights from $1 000, double, all-inclusive.Convento di Santa Maria di Constantinopoli, Puglia, ItalyThe stunning and little-known Convento di Santa Maria di COnstantinopoli, in Puglia.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerThe graceful lady of the house, Athena McAlpine, doesn t want to install Wi-Fi in her amazing, one-of-a-kind convento in Puglia, hidden deep in the south of Italy. And why should she? The home is practically a museum, filled with tribal art pieces and eccentricities collected from around the world. Phone service is also a no-go: The centuries-old, meter-thick walls of this former monastery prevent any cell phone signal from entering. It s the perfect excuse to relax in the lounge chairs at the pool, a glass of Italian ros in hand all courtesy of your eccentric hostess. Rooms from $400, bookable via e-mail.Nimmu House, Ladakh, IndiaThis retreat is nestled 11,000 feet up in the Himalayas.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerEven in the capital of this spirited Indian region, located 11 000 feet high in the Himalayas, the internet can cut out for days (or weeks) at a time. Nimmu House makes that feel glamorous: It was once a royal palace, and now has three rooms and five luxurious tents with access to ancient-feeling apple and apricot orchards. Tune out. Or go on a trek through stunningly serene Ladakh. Nobody will find you, either way. Two-day packages from $240 per person, all-inclusive.Ratua Island, VanuatuRatua Private Island, in Vanuatu, is even farther-flung than Fiji or Bora Bora.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerThe views of the azure-blue lagoon from your room s wooden deck are begging to be Instagrammed. But that s not possible on Ratua Island a private island, all-villa retreat in Vanuatu. You won t care, though: This barefoot luxury hideaway is more secret and more exclusive than any resort in well-trod Bora Bora or crowd-packed Fiji. Rooms from $300.Briol, South-Tyrol, ItalyThis isn&#8217;t the Italy you think you know.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerThe most magical way to reach this old and delightful pension is on foot (with your luggage towed separately in a speedy 4&#215;4 Fiat Panda). Johanna, the eccentric owner of Briol, has preserved the character of this inn by not adding any modern luxuries forcing you to focus on the nature outside. With startling Tyrolian mountain peaks on view from your private balcony, that s no problem at all. Rooms from $105 per person, all-inclusive.Jalman Meadows Ger Camp, MongoliaJalman Meadows, in Mongolia, is every bit as peaceful and hidden away as it looks.Photographer: David De VleeschauwerYou ll say out of office like you really mean it the moment you zip out of Ulaanbaatar s city limits and into rural Mongolia. Stay in a comfortable camp such as Jalman Meadows which has 14 well-appointed tents, many with private showers and wooden stoves and spend some time with the nomads who live here. Switching off has never felt so Zen. Days are spend hiking the Khan Khentii protected wilderness park in which the camp is located, fishing in the nearby Upper Tuul River, or riding horses with the nomads. From $73 per person, per night, including meals.Look for the author s book, Remote Places, here her next book, Remote Experiences, is due out in the second half of 2017. 2017 Bloomberg