The revised Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) codes signal a more interventionist and prescriptive approach by government to black economic empowerment. In response, companies will need to rigorously reassess their value chains and rapidly address areas that may no longer meet the new requirements. While the previous B-BBEE codes were voluntary in nature, the new framework introduces penalties and even jail time for non-compliance and fronting practices. Compliance with the new B-BBEE codes will determine a company s ability to successfully tender for government or public entity tenders, and to apply for sector-specific licences. In addition, as a result of increased emphasis on the procurement element of the B-BBEE Scorecard, private-sector suppliers will feel the pressure to meet the minimum B-BBEE requirements.Codes of Good Practice categories and points allocationAchieving a good score on the B-BBEE scorecard has become more difficult due to stricter compliance requirements and changes in calculating the scorecard. The B-BBEE scorecard elements have been reduced from seven to five.Three elements (Ownership, Skills Development and New Enterprise and Supplier Development) are deemed priority areas, meaning that minimum compliance of at least 40% is compulsory in these categories. Failure to achieve this will automatically downgrade the company by one level, and this has already resulted in automatic B-BBEE downgrades for many companies. The new scorecard elements and corresponding points allocation are as follows:Exemption thresholdsThere will be some relief for small, medium and start-up businesses due to an increase in the thresholds as follows:Compliance for Qualifying Small Enterprises may prove more difficult as the QSE scorecard will now be measured against all five scorecard elements, whereas it was previously possible to choose any four of the seven scorecard elements. In addition, failure to achieve minimum compliance with the Ownership, Skills Development and New Enterprise and Supplier Development areas will automatically downgrade the company by one level.Obligations and penaltiesWithin its mandate to uphold the principles of B-BBEE through an advocacy role that includes investigative powers regarding B-BBEE transactions and fronting the commission is able to subpoena and make court applications to restrain breaches of the act or instances of fronting. The penalties that the commission will be able to impose for transgressions include imprisonment of up to ten years for individuals that have misrepresented, or provided false information regarding their B-BBEE status, or engaged in fronting. For corporations, the penalty could be a fine of up to 10% of the company s annual turnover and a ban from participating in government or public sector contracts for a period of ten years.Government and public entities will have the right to cancel any contract awarded that was based on false information regarding B-BBEE status. They will also be obliged to apply the codes in procurement policies and in the issuance of licences and authorisations, whereas before, the rule had been as far as reasonably possible .In addition, certain entities, including all JSE -listed companies, will be required to submit a B-BBEE compliance report to the commission on an annual basis.In conclusion, the new codes have upped the ante for corporate SA s meaningful engagement with B-BBEE. It is opportune for companies to investigate new partnerships and rethink their strategies to ensure B-BBEE compliance.Soria Hay, head of corporate finance at niche independent investment banking and advisory firm, Bravura, discusses the implications for business following the establishment of the B-BBEE Commission and revised Codes of Good Practice.