Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Nearly thereYesterday&#8217;s Federal Reserve minutes showed that officials thought a rate increase may be appropriate &#8220;fairly soon,&#8221; to avoid overheating the US economy. While the report was dovish enough to slightly weaken the dollar, it did not contain enough clear direction to cause a major market move. Mohamed El-Erian, Allianz s chief economic adviser, warned investors that they are underpricing the chances of a rate hike next month. There was something for data-visualisation nerds, as the Fed said it will add fan charts to its Summary of Economic Projections in future.Barclays profitShares in Barclays Plc rallied 3.2% by 5:29am Eastern Time to the highest level of chief executive officer Jes Staley&#8217;s tenure, after the bank announced fourth-quarter pretax profit of 330 million pounds ($410 million). The institution&#8217;s capital ratio climbed more than expected, and it said it was making progress in divesting unwanted assets. Glencore results, commodity currenciesGlencore announced results which contained a 48% jump in annual profit. Shares rose 2.6% by 5:35am as the company delivered the best trading results since 2008. The outlook may not be rosy for miners, and global growth, if commodity currencies are any guide. Nations such as Australia, South Africa and Brazil are seeing their currencies lose momentum as the Bloomberg Commodity Index goes into retreat. Markets flatOvernight, the MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index was broadly unchanged, while Japan&#8217;s Topix index dropped 0.1%, as the yen strengthened against the dollar following the Fed minutes. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was also broadly unchanged by 5:45am and S&amp;P 500 futures had added one point. Policy delayPresident Donald Trump has postponed the issuance of a new version of his immigration restriction order until next week, according to White House officials. Trump is due to meet with corporate CEOs today for a brainstorming session about crafting new policies on taxes, job creation and trade. 2017 Bloomberg