Finance Minister Gordhan, Deputy Director-General Momoniat, industry shareholders, fellow fund managers, consultants, brokers, advisers, and investors of the world: Thank you! Today&#8217;s ceremony has very special meaning. Because today we are not merely transferring power from one president to another, but we are taking power from the people, and giving it back to you, the active managers who make this industry great. For a long time, we active managers reaped the rewards of investing while the people carried the risk. We flourished, but the people did not get their fair share of the wealth. Our fund managers prospered, even if the returns were poor and some funds had to close.It s been tremendous. You are part of a historic movement that is based on one crucial conviction: that this industry exists to serve itself, not its clients. The oath of office I take today is an oath of allegiance to all you active managers.But we are under threat. For some years now, our price discovery has enabled index funds at the expense of actively-managed funds. We subsidised the growth of their business while allowing the very sad depletion of ours.From this day forward, a new vision will govern our industry. From this moment on, it&#8217;s going to be industry first! Every decision we make; on fees, on disclosure, on product design, will be made to benefit only industry shareholders and industry employees. We must protect our business from the ravages of simple solutions that expose our model, obviate our advice and destroy our jobs.This protection will give us great prosperity and strength.As you know, I have a running war with the media. They are among the most dishonest human beings on earth. They deliberately misstate the size of inflows into active management. I know the flows are huge. More than ever. Much more than index investing. But this morning, I see reports that say we have outflows. Almost $300 billion in the US alone, over the past year. But as I look out, I see the money pouring in. So these journalists are lying. The entire active versus passive debate is rigged by the corrupt media. It s true. Every year, they print stories that most active funds don t beat the benchmark. Totally fake. They are telling lies to push their loser passive agenda. The alternate facts are this: most, if not all actively-managed funds, beat the market consistently over the long term. Every bad high school student can tell you this. And we are going to keep doing it. We are going to keep outperforming. We are going to outperform so much, the people are going to be sick of outperforming. Active investing is going to keep winning. It s going to be great.Let me tell how we are going to do it.First, one simple rule for all you so-called fiduciaries out there: market active, sell active and buy active.But be aware: when the indexing industry send their people, they re sending their worst. They re bringing simplicity. They&#8217;re bringing low costs. They re transparent. And some, we assume, are good people. To help you along, we are going to build a wall, to stop investors going direct. Even better, we are going to get investors to pay for it.It s going to be the most beautiful wall you ve ever seen, full of complexity, and confusion and non-disclosure. It ll be huge, so huge. Investors won t have a clue what s happening. We are going to put five thousand additional consultants on patrol I know some great people, they re going to do great to make sure no one gets across without paying for advice and distribution. I know, some of you have index funds on your shelf, just in case a client demands passive. We understand, you don t WANT to sell these funds but sometimes you have to. Let me warn you: if you import those outrageous products, we are going to slap you with duties. 100% duties. Maybe more. Whatever it takes, to look good. Next, we are going to tackle the real problem, these radical index funds who want to destroy our way of investing, and the liberties we take with other people s money.You think you can come into our market, trade off our price discovery, without contributing, while we active investors do the work and incur the costs? This carnage stops right here and it stops right now. You indexers are not going to trade at our market prices, you are going to pay a premium. We are going to tear up those unwritten trading rules and start negotiating share prices with each index investor separately. It s going to be: industry first!As a further security measure, we are also going to put a ban on products coming out of 10X, Sygnia, Satrix, Deutsche Bank and etfSA. Let me stress: this is not a passive ban! Just because I called for a passive ban before does not make this a passive ban. But we need to vet their products a lot more carefully. We don t want low-cost duds coming into retirement-industry-land and blowing up our business model.We are also going to do something about those ridiculous default regulations. Weak on charges, and very weak on active investing. I am going to get those turned around. Or else get someone fired. So let s get out there and start selling. Like all of you, I&#8217;m automatically attracted to big funds. I like to get my hands on them, so I just start kissing up to the trustees. I don&#8217;t even wait. And when you&#8217;re a star fund manager they let you do it. You can just grab their purse strings. You can do anything. Together, we will make active investing strong again. We will make fund managers wealthy again. We will make shareholders proud again. We will make employment safe again. And yes, together, we will make this industry great again. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless active management.Chris Veegh, chief propaganda architect at 10X.