JOHANNESBURG When Anchor Group listed on the AltX in September 2014, the stars aligned almost perfectly.The listing drew unprecedented demand from interested shareholders and its assets under management grew at a rapid pace, albeit off a small base.The share price didn t disappoint. After being issued at R2 per share, it closed at R3.50 on its first trading day. Two months after listing, the share was trading well above R7.Acquisitions followed and during a time when there was significant interest in offshore investments (largely due to the rand s depreciation), its asset management arm, Anchor Capital, teamed up with Mauritian-based investment firm Astoria to bring investors a global equity portfolio in one share through a secondary listing on the AltX.Its rock star Anchor BCI Equity Fund ended 2015 as the number one general equity fund in South Africa and assets under management (AUM) and advice were accumulating at a feverish rate.&nbsp;2016Dec 2015Dec 2014Revenue&nbsp;&nbsp;R226m+175%R82.4m+161%Adjusted HEPS&nbsp;&nbsp;55.1c+83%30.1c+301%AUM and adviceR47.1bn (end Sept)R45.6bn(end June)R34.1bn+297%R8.6bn+207%Towards the end of November 2015 the share was trading above R18.Priced for perfection, the tide turned.Its BCI Equity Fund lost 9.5% last year compared to a positive benchmark return of 4.1%. (The fund has delivered a 17.2% annualised return since April 5, 2013 compared to the benchmark s 12%.) Growth in assets under management started slowing.The hedge fund manager Capricorn, in which Anchor bought a 47.41% stake, experienced a torrid 2016.And Astoria came under fire following the registration of a share option scheme to incentivise the CEO and CFO of the Mauritian-based firm. Reeling from the significant drop in the Astoria share price, shareholders felt the scheme was inappropriate and it had to be terminated.Anchor Group s share price dropped roughly 45% over the past year and is down almost 20% in the year to date. It closed at R7.96 on Thursday.Cassie Treurnicht, portfolio manager at Gryphon Asset Management, says Anchor s listing was extremely successful and there were unrealistic investor expectations around its future earnings growth a function of growth in assets under management, fund performance and market movements.Since May 2015 the local market has largely moved sideways.While Anchor Capital s funds performed extremely well until December 2015, performance has been under pressure since then, adds Jean Pierre Verster, portfolio manager at Fairtree Capital. Therefore the fee income of Anchor would be under pressure. The sentiment has turned more negative. Investors are more cautious about their prospects, he says.Anthony Clark, small- and medium-cap analyst at Vunani Securities, says the stock market experienced a very indifferent performance last year and managers who weren t in selective counters effectively resource stocks did not do that well. Anchor was heavily skewed towards rand hedge stocks at a time of rand appreciation.It is just a mathematical quirk that investors are now looking at probably the worst annual performance that Anchor has had in any period because of the high share price base reached in December 2015, Verster adds.He says there is no reason to believe that the business itself has dire prospects. It has executed well on its strategy since listing. I don t think that there is any reason to be overly bearish about the business. However, there is a risk that if it doesn t restore the positive performance of its funds and grow fee income, profitability could come under pressure costs have increased and revenue might not rise at the same rate.Clark says Anchor has an amazing marketing machine , which is reflected in the strong growth in assets under management.He expects results for the year through December to be okay .A lack of news flow and concern about its profitability and growth in assets under management have amplified share price pressure in recent weeks.Clark says the market knows Capricorn hasn t performed well and is correctly assuming that Anchor s profitability will decline. Roughly a quarter of its profits is derived from its stake in Capricorn.While the market is expecting that assets under management will have come under pressure over the past twelve months, Clark anticipates reasonable growth in this area.The stock currently offers value in the long run, he argues.Peter Armitage, CEO of Anchor Group, says they have no influence over the share price and operate the business for the long term.From a business perspective they have made great strides in 2016 and enter 2017 with a great client base, investment team and are aiming for growth ahead of the industry over time, he says. Our investment performance has been great since inception, but in 2016 we underperformed on a relative basis largely due to not having enough resource shares. Investment is a long-term game and going forward we will again have good years and bad years, but aim to continue to outperform over time. From the heady heights the share has come back down to earth. I have learnt over time that share prices follow earnings over the long term and we must deliver on our goals. He says the recent share price decline is good for buyers and bad for sellers, but ultimately the market must decide where to price the share. I own more shares than when we listed and am a long-term holder. He says they are primarily an asset management business and group performance will always be heavily influenced by market and currency movements, which become more pronounced as the business gets bigger.While it can be difficult for rapidly-growing asset management firms to manage inflows as it becomes less flexible and nimble (general equity mandates are forced to hold a certain minimum percentage of the fund in shares at all times, which could force them to become buyers during certain periods), Armitage does not believe Anchor has become a victim of its initial success. Our initial success has enabled us to take our business to another level and we are proud of what we have achieved in a short time period. We made R5m of after tax earnings in 2013 and over R60m in the first half of 2016. Our clients have earned great returns since inception and we would like to think great service. We have a culture we have worked hard on and our innovation and entrepreneurship is ingrained in the way we do business. Our initial success has given us a springboard which we must continue to leverage off to deliver to clients and grow our business well into the future. 