South Africa s government will ask the Constitutional Court to allow it to extend a welfare distribution contract with Net 1 UEPS Technologies s Cash Paymaster Services unit, which the nation s top court had ruled invalid, to ensure that 17.2 million people continue being paid.While Net 1 s contract expires at the end of March, the South African Social Security Agency hasn t held a tender for a replacement or made arrangements to take over the payments itself. Although six options, including using other banks, were considered, granting Johannesburg-based Net 1 a one-year extension was considered the only viable one, Sassa executive manager Raphaahle Ramokgopa told lawmakers in Cape Town on Wednesday. The only thing that would make us survive is to go to court and ask for the suspension of the invalidity of Net 1 s contract, he said. Any other option will not enable Sassa to pay on April 1 2017. The payments, which amount to R139.5 billion ($10.4 billion) a year, are a signature policy of the ruling African National Congress, which says the grants are an important measure to reduce inequality in the nation almost 23 years after the end of white-minority rule. In previous election campaigns its officials have told rallies that if another party came to power the payments may end. Mobilise Support Welfare grants are possibly one of the most important instruments available to the ANC and to the government in order to mobilize support, Dirk Kotze, a politics professor at the University of South Africa, said in an interview from Pretoria. If there were interruptions for a month or so, the ANC would be regarded as the one who should take responsibility for it. A huge percentage of the South African population would be affected. The Constitutional Court may have no option but to condone the extension of Net 1 s existing illegal contract to ensure the payment of welfare grants isn t interrupted, said Lindy Wilson, the DA s shadow deputy minister for social development. They have done nothing for two years to force this emergency. Thokozani Magwaza, the welfare agency s chief executive officer, denied that the agency had tried to circumvent the court order, saying its attempts to issue a new tender were upended when two potential bidders withdrew and none of the others met the technical specifications. No Pressure It s not like we have been sitting on our laurels, he said. The fact remains that a decision needs to be taken. Come April 1 we need to pay. We have not had any political pressure on the issue of CPS, he said after allegations of interference were made by opposition parties.Ramokgopa said Sassa will use the extension of Net 1 s contract to give it time to issue a closed tender to 27 banks to take over the payments for welfare recipients that have accounts and appoint a new company to distribute cash to those that don t. The agency ultimately aims to take over the entire payments system itself.Funeral InsuranceSassa want the banks to offer accounts designed to protect welfare recipients, often poor rural citizens with little understanding of how financial systems work, from companies that offer services such as funeral insurance for children and mobile-phone airtime and then make deductions directly from state payments.The Constitutional Court ruled the Net 1 contract invalid in 2013 because of the way it was awarded a year earlier. Net 1 s chief executive officer, Serge Belamant, said on Tuesday his company is willing to keep providing the service and would also consider selling the unit that handles the payment to the South African government. Belamant wasn t immediately available to comment on Wednesday.Net 1 has been in legal battles with the government over the right to allow deductions and it part owns some companies that offer the services. Up to now, CPS have been doing a good job with regard to the payments of grants, which must be separated from the issue of the deductions, Magwaza said. I have got to divorce the two things. CPS is not deducting per se, Net 1 is one that is doing the deductions. It s unfortunate they are in the same stable. 2017 Bloomberg