Last year was a difficult one for South African equity investors. Including dividends, the FTSE/JSE All Share Index returned just 2.6%.However, this doesn&#8217;t tell the full story. A look at the performance of local general equity unit trusts shows that investors could have seen very different returns.The top unit trust of 2016 delivered a return of 62.37%. The worst lost 12.19%. The difference between those two extremes was just short of 75%.This incredible dispersion of performance came about because of market conditions that had been building for some time. The manager of the PSG Equity Fund, Shaun le Roux, explains that at the start of the year, the divergence in valuations in stock markets around the world was extraordinary. On the one side you had people prepared to pay almost anything for perceived higher quality equities, and on the other you had parts of the stock market that were trading for extreme distress, Le Roux says. The only time we have seen a wider divergence was during the dotcom bubble. So if you were prepared to invest in some of the less-loved, more-cyclical, perceived lower-quality parts of the market, and if you could take a longer-term view, it was very fertile ground for generating good long-term returns for your clients. This was not just a South African story either, as a similar pattern played out across the globe. And Le Roux believes that it is still an important theme in equity markets. We think what you saw last year was a partial unwind of this scenario, but we would argue that this gap between the very expensive parts of the market and the cheap parts remains very wide by historical standards, he says. If you can take a longer term-view and can select carefully, we think there are still good long-term returns to be had from equity markets. The current opportunityDuring 2016 the resurgence in cyclical stocks was most prominently led by resource counters. And this was probably the sector most out of favour when the year began, with valuations as low as they were during the global financial crisis. Some of the prices attached to some of these companies were effectively saying they had a high chance of going out of business and commodity prices were going to continue dropping, says Le Roux. But we took a view that in some cases the prices were way too cheap relative to what one could expect in a more normalised environment. Hence they became very low risk investments, even though there was volatility and they had been poor performers for some time. However, with the rebound that has taken place in this sector, PSG has been reducing some of this exposure as it believes that margin of safety is no longer there. The margin of safety is such an important concept, Le Roux explains. It s one of our observations of the market at the moment that we think people have lost sight of the price they are paying. That gap between what you think a company is worth and what you pay for it is really important because it&#8217;s a buffer against events that are very difficult to foresee, but also a buffer against your own goals making errors in terms of your assessment. PSG is therefore finding more attractive opportunities in other areas where it sees mispriced quality companies. Typically that means looking in areas where there is some fear around, Le Roux explains. From a South African perspective, we can find inherently good businesses that are more geared to the SA economy, where earnings were depressed and they are now very cheap. Similarly we are looking in areas around the world where there is fear, he adds. For example, after Brexit people got very fearful of the UK economy and we think there are some interesting opportunities to buy very good UK businesses at attractive prices. There is also no question that Europe has the characteristics that will give rise to good opportunities because there is a fair bit of fear around there too. What is critical in this environment is being able to call on past experience. The fact that you have seen these kinds of cycles before is tremendously valuable, Le Roux says. We think that your experience and knowledge about markets is cumulative and what happens in practice is that there is a degree of pattern recognition. When you are seeing people panicking to that extent, and you&#8217;re seeing distress applied into sectors and stocks, having the experience allows you to have the temperament to be investing when others are panicking and selling when others are getting greedy. That experience is very important because that is what allows you to be less emotional in your decision-making.&#8221;This article was brought to you by PSG.