In the three years that I have been writing for Moneyweb we have observed the downward spiral of organised labour. None more so than Cosatu, which has fought vicious internal fights with no clear winner; seen its biggest mining union become a shadow of itself in action and membership numbers, and has faced a spirited call out of the internal crisis led by Katishi Masemola of Fawu (Food and Allied Workers Union).And that s not all; its affiliates in the transport and municipal sectors are involved in some of the nastiest internal fights for control and power. There are also threats of the looming deregistering of The Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied Workers Union (Ceppwawu) for failing to submit its financial reports to the department of labour for four years.I recently gave a talk at one of the asset management companies on the politics of labour and the outlook for the year. One manager asked why I said that these are critical days for organised labour (read Organised labour is driving itself into oblivion), and the truth, as I see it, is that a long time ago Cosatu stopped thinking about transforming the society and focused on securing comfortable government positions. In doing so, they don&#8217;t have a joined up plan for a better world for workers or any sense of the organisational framework to deliver it.And even when those former leaders are holding positions of importance, they have no power to overrule the ANC NEC position on key labour policies or influence the final decision. Thus, they ve become compromisers. What a price to pay.But that is history. I&#8217;d like to tackle Cosatu&#8217;s bomb drop of a week ago when it backtracked on signing the National Minimum Wage (NMW). It reminded me of the Labour Party in the UK when it was so blinded by Keynesian social democracy politics that it misjudged the rise of Thatcherism after 1979, and did not see the threat to its political relevance. Although not necessarily unfolding in the same manner, the federation has painted itself into a very narrow alley. They have been part of discussions and decisions on key policies since Nedlac was formed and therefore have been in all national minimum wage talks. To suddenly say they must be given time to consult further on matters at the Central Executive Committee level (CEC) means that politics more than the economics are key drivers of this sudden U-turn. There are simply no sound economic reasons for suddenly recognising the need to engage affiliates on this matter. But there are a few political ones I could think of.First, more than anything, they fear a revolt from rank and file union members against what is perceived as a benign agreement, because news of grassroots-level unhappiness at what s been unfolding for the past six years in the federation is gaining momentum. Affected members whose pleas are unheard represent ready-to-leave members. But where would they go?Second, Numsa has rejected the proposed NMW since the release of the report last December. Fast-forward to last week when again Irvin Jim repeated the view only this time in harsher tones. In a statement he issued in his General Secretary capacity he said; this is an amount that not even his (Deputy President Ramaphosa) dog can survive on! Lest you forget, Numsa is a union that has seen growth in membership despite being outside Cosatu. It has also adopted a new slogan that says Organise or Starve! Don t Moan, Mobilise through its new Federation. To the murmuring, unhappy and gatvol-of-not-being-listened-to members, such a federation might be speaking to their immediate needs and can draw their attention.These are two critical political reasons for this backtracking. This flip-flopping by the Cosatu leadership reflects disillusionment, fear, and an attempt to absolve themselves from the original decision. Those who are looking to this once lively Cosatu to lead are in for shock; there will be no galvanising miracle forthcoming. I am among the few that say that in an economy that continues to have the weight of the horrible past affecting the direction of its future, organised labour can play a bridging role between the ordinary citizen, the state and business.Contemporary politics is proving to be a terrain Cosatu is battling to adjust to, its attempts to frame a social leaning political direction are fast becoming ghost-like.