As part of its mandate to champion and enforce government s broad-based black economic empowerment strategy, the B-BBEE Commission will oversee new and compulsory reporting requirements that include the submission of an annual compliance report for all JSE-listed companies.JSE-listed companies must submit an annual compliance report to the commission, which details the score obtained by the company for each of the BEE elements being ownership, management control, skills development, enterprise and supplier development, socio-economic development and any other sector-specific element. Each of these scores must be based on verified information that reflects how they contribute to the outcome of the scorecard in terms of the Codes of Good Practice. The challenge here is that elements like spend are verified and based on contributions measured during a 12-month financial period. If the financials are not timeously completed, verification will be delayed, thereby impacting on a company s ability to comply with the reporting obligation. The compliance report must also state whether the company is an empowering supplier and whether it has achieved the priority element thresholds of ownership, skills development and enterprise and supplier development.The report must be submitted to the commission within 90 days of a company s financial year-end. If included in the company s audited financial statements (AFS) and annual report, the compliance report should be submitted to the commission within 30 days of the approval of the AFS and annual report. The commission is required to confirm receipt of the compliance report within five days after which the compliance report will be reviewed and a written response provided by the commission within 90 days, outlining areas for improvement if necessary. A site visit could be undertaken by the commission to verify the correctness of the information provided in the report. If the commission deems the report to have failed compliance, formal notice will be given to the company detailing the issues and allowing 30 days for the submission of a corrected report. Should the commission reject the corrected report, the company will be formally advised, with reasons for the rejection. At this time the company will have an opportunity to appear before the commission in a closed or open meeting, to respond to questions and take advice. Apart from a disturbingly short remediation period for corrective action and the re-issuance of a corrected report, there are also considerable unknowns to the review process. For example, it is not clear how the commission will measure non-compliance, and the potential for questionable outcomes is material. Currently, neither the JSE nor the commission requires the compliance report to be included in the AFS. Should the JSE amend its current requirements to include the report, this gives rise to a number of questions. If the report is to form part of the AFS, would the auditor need to note non-compliance if the report is not submitted on time? If so, would this be considered to be a material breach or directors breach of fiduciary duties? What would the consequential impact be of non-compliance on the audit report of the AFS? At the time of writing, the JSE Listings Requirements are silent on the impact of non-compliance, but this may well be adjusted to incorporate the report requirements in the same way as certain requirements under the King Code have been included from a JSE-compliance perspective.Finally, if the commission determines that the listed company is not compliant with the B-BBEE Codes of Good Conduct, it would be critical to understand how this ruling would correlate with the rating level awarded to the company by the National Empowerment Rating Agency (NERA).Melanie De Nysschen is corporate finance principal at independent investment banking and advisory firm, Bravura