Over the last two years, the FTSE/JSE All Share Index is basically flat. There have been many ups and downs, but at just under 53 000, the Alsi is almost exactly where it was in late January and early February 2015.In other words, there hasn&#8217;t been much joy for investors in the local market in past 24 months. Returns have been very difficult to come by. This is not just a South African story either. Emerging markets in general have been trending sideways, and lower, for even longer than that. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is currently below where it was in early 2012.Speaking at the Glacier Investment Summit in Cape Town on Tuesday, the manager of the SIM Balanced Fund, Fred White, said that this largely reflects how a slowdown in China&#8217;s economy has impacted emerging markets across the world. The question is whether anything might alter that. For emerging markets, you have to ask whether there is a change in the world order that can be to our benefit? said White. For the last two decades, the picture was similar to a flock of birds with emerging markets flying in China&#8217;s slipstream. But that lead bird is getting tired. It has over-invested, there are high debt levels, and labour costs have risen. However, he argued that there are positive signs coming from the US that suggest that it may be able to take over that lead. Consumer confidence in the US has reached higher levels than before the financial crisis, White noted. Linked to that is that unemployment has come down and is low by historical standards. He suggested that the Trump administration has also expressed its desire to cut red tape, reduce taxes and invest in infrastructure. This could stimulate growth, but also drive demand for commodities. This would support prices and be generally good for emerging markets.At the same time, there are signs of a mild cyclical improvement in South Africa&#8217;s economy. If you look at profit growth it has turned up slightly, said White. Our terms of trade have improved, and in our analysis, inflation has peaked. South Africa has recorded a trade surplus in five of the last eight months, while a lower inflationary environment means that the Reserve Bank could begin to cut interest rates. That will also release some of the pressure on the economy. But there are still headwinds, White warned. We are in a period of fiscal consolidation. Due to the pressure of a potential credit downgrade, our budget still has to be tight. The government is looking to cut rather than expand expenditure. Business confidence is also still iffy, and the marginal rate of return on capital is still showing softness. This means that businesses are spending their money very carefully, because they are not assured of great returns.However, even in this environment where uncertainty remains high, White believes that investors can feel a little more comfortable than they have over the last 18 months. There is potential that we are at a point where there could be support from an earnings perspective, which would be positive for equities, he noted. We might also get additional support on a global basis if the US starts taking off. This is the case even though there is a general perception that the South African market is already expensive. Headline price-to-earnings (PE) numbers are very high historically, White said. The market PE is in the 20s on an index basis. Company earnings have also been slowing, which means that the valuation gap is very big. This is not usually an appealing investment prospect. But there are counter arguments, White said. The contraction we have seen in real earnings is as big as we saw in the global financial crisis and is large by historical standards. But if you subscribe to the story of a mild cyclical improvement, there is a real chance that we are at the bottom and at a turning point. Usually when you come off that bottom, it tends to be a more positive period for equities. He also suggested that the market PE is distorted by just a few large counters. Among those are the two big diversified miners, BHP Billiton and Anglo American. A PE analysis of a commodity counter going through a trough in the cycle gives false signals, he argued. And then we have Naspers at 17% of the index sitting on an 80 PE. But we believe you need a very different methodology to evaluate its value. According to White&#8217;s analysis, apart from the five biggest counters, the PE of the top 40 is around 16, which is historically fair value. However, when looking at a measure of price-to-intrinsic value, he believes the picture becomes even better. On this basis we believe the market is offering a discount, he said. This will also be skewed by one or two companies, but on a bottom up basis our analysts are seeing value in the market. That tells us that there is less to worry about in the local equity market than just a glance at the PE would indicate. 