Retailer Massmart is sticking to its strategy of a measured expansion further into the African continent at a time when its sales outside South Africa have hit a snag.Massmart the operator of Game, Builders Warehouse, Makro and other consumer goods brands plans to open 11 stores outside of South Africa &#8211; or 25% of more retail space &#8211; over the next two years in markets it already operates in.At the moment, Massmart operates 39 stores in more than ten African countries including Nigeria, Ghana, Mozambique, Uganda and Kenya to name a few.CFO Johannes van Lierop, says most of the store openings will be Game stores maintaining a cautious strategy of opening up to five stores per year outside South Africa.For many years, Massmart has been criticised by market watchers for its slow expansion further into the African continent while its competitor Shoprite has profited handsomely from its Africa expansion strategy. Shoprite has not only rolled out stores but has also invested in its supply chain operations that have enabled it to cut costs.Massmart amasses nearly 9% of its sales outside South Africa compared with Shoprite&#8217;s more than 17%.However, Africa is not for the faint-hearted. Food producer Tiger Brands and upmarket retailer Woolworths have both pulled out of Nigeria citing tough trading conditions.South Africa s retail malaise spurred on by downbeat consumers, who are facing rising living costs, unemployment and a heap of debt that has limited a revival in their spending, has prompted retailers to look for growth opportunities away from their home market.The year 2016 was tough for the continent, with oil-dependent economies such as Nigeria, Angola and Ghana being hit by the slide in oil prices, low commodity prices and ever-volatile currencies.Massmart has felt the pinch on the latter, as total sales growth from its non-South African stores grew by 11.2% (or 13.4% in constant currencies) for the year to December 25, 2016. However, its sales slowed compared with the 23.2% growth for the six months to June 2016 due to currency weakness in Nigeria and Mozambique, which impacted sales growth in rand terms.Says CEO Guy Hayward: Africa is still growing but a lot slower than it used to from six and 12 months ago. Growth in local currency [non-South Africa markets] is mainly positive but it&#8217;s softer after translating to rands. Hayward says sales in rand terms, post the crucial festive season up until February 2017, have slipped into negative territory. This is something new for us, we have not seen this previously and we assume that this is temporary, he says.Momentum SP Reid analyst Alexander Sprules, says he is happy that Massmart is staying conservative given tough trading conditions in the continent. Shoprite, on the other hand, has invested in Africa a little longer and has more experience. Massmart is focused on the 13 key ex-SA countries. The Africa performance was weighed on by the weakness in the countries economies but there is substantial growth available on the continent, Sprules tells Moneyweb.Massmart lifted its trading profit by 11.9% to R2.6 billion on the back of overall group sales growth of 7.7% to R91.3 billion for the year to December 25, 2016. Its comparable store sales rose by 5.4% while product inflation reached 6.7%. Massmart s gross margin grew to 19% compared with the prior years 18.9%.Massmart shares were up 8.6% on Thursday at 13:34.&nbsp;