CAPE TOWN &#8211; It has been an interesting 14 or 15 months since December 13 [2015] for me and the Treasury team. With these words a remarkably relaxed-looking finance minister Pravin Gordhan opened the pre-budget press briefing.For the most part Gordhan stuck to the script, discussing national budget priorities within a tightly constrained fiscal space and stressing his oft-repeated belief in the need for inclusive growth and radical economic transformation whatever label one chooses to give it. There is this phenomenon of anti-globalisation. You cannot have a small elite group pocketing the benefits of economic growth. That does not create a sustainable economy. Even a newspaper like the Financial Times is asking whether the liberal economic model is still relevant. The charter of economic rights suggests that it is time to start thinking about people who are so badly off that inter-generational poverty is perpetuated, said Gordhan. We need a social consensus it s unacceptable, immoral and not consistent with the kind of democracy we hope to create in SA that people cannot live a decent life. How do poor people assemble wealth? He also reiterated the point, not always well understood, that budget decisions are not simply the preserve of one or two people within the Ministry of Finance. Instead budget decisions, as well as the economic assumptions underpinning this such as fiscal policy objectives and tax proposals, are all considered by a Cabinet committee that is appointed by the President and chaired by the Minister of Finance.This committee makes recommendations to Cabinet several times a year. It is Cabinet s prerogative whether to accept or reject these.Members of this committee include Des van Rooyen, the minister of governance and traditional affairs; Gugu Nkwinti, minister of rural development &amp; land reform, Rob Davies, minister of trade and industry, Naledi Pandor, minister of science and technology, Lynne Brown, minister of public enterprises, Bathabile Dlamini, minister of social development and the deputy minister of finance, Mcebisi Jonas. We have been able to sustain our fiscal discipline. There is a clear understanding [within government] that the fiscal framework as adopted by government is the framework that we will support. If there is a need for cash it has to come from within the framework. This is a zero sum game money taken from one place has to come from somewhere else, said Gordhan.However the elephants in the room were corruption, patronage, the Guptas and whether Gordhan or his deputy Mcebisi Jonas will be replaced by Brian Molefe, as is rumoured.In their direct, but unfailingly diplomatic way, the minister, his deputy and the director general of National Treasury, Lungisa Fuzile, did not shy away from these subjects.Does it matter at the end of the day who is the finance minister? I ve been DG for six years and in that time I have had four [finance] ministers, said Fuzile. I m a civil servant but I m also human. A high turnover of ministers damages morale. I ve seen my best colleagues poached during these times. Gordhan also had a few words. It does matter. The advice, the policies, the proposals that are made can vary. One of the things about institutions is that it takes many years to build a solid one the reputation, resilience, culture, and skills and overnight someone can come in and dismantle that. That is where society comes in. They need to be aware of the importance of sustaining institutions those that are reflective of serving all South Africans and not diverting them away because of sectoral interests. Treasury is a highly professional institution. Treasuries are virtually indispensable to an effective organisation and it is in the interests of generations of South Africans that Treasury and revenue administration are not messed with. The staff at Sars are excellent public servants. We are having a new set of engagements with senior management at Sars and we hope it leads to constructive outcomes in the interest of the country as a whole. The patronage elephant was also circled. There is a direct link between patronage and growth and development, said Jonas. Patronage networks, the stronger they become, have a direct impact on progress. We need to establish a culture that discourages this, added Gordhan.