PRETORIA &#8211; The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO) achieved savings of R675 million in the current financial year for government on cell phone and vehicle contracts, finance minister Pravin Gordhan said in his 2017 Budget Speech.The vehicle contract alone is expected to save the state between R1 billion and R1.5 billion over the next three years, he said.This is the result of ongoing reforms of public procurement aimed at using government s buying power to free up money for service delivery. According to Gordhan, the OCPO currently manages 71 transversal contracts covering over 23 000 items worth R61 billion. He said good progress is being made to find better value for money while expanding and diversifying the number of suppliers. In the property leasing sector we expect savings of between R2 billion and R3 billion to be realised, while releasing resources for greater employment and contracting in building maintenance and services. He said the South African Information Technology Agency (Sita) and National Treasury worked together to achieve savings of R2.5 billion over the next three years on the ten largest ECT equipment contracts.The average cost of new schools was reduced from R70 million to R34 million for a 7 500m school due to the development of cost-effective standards for building designed by National Treasury together with the Department of Basic Education, Gordhan said.He said government s central supplier database is now fully operational and makes doing business with government easier and less costly. It enables government to know who it is doing business with and to use technology to reduce opportunities for fraud and corruption. He said a large number of transactions have been identified for further investigation with a focus on public servants doing business with the state, supply agreements reflecting ID numbers of people who have died and payment to bank accounts to persons other than the relevant suppliers.Gordhan said there might be legitimate explanations in some cases. But where fraud or corruption is identified, action must be taken. Suppliers who deliver on their contracts are entitled to payment within 30 days and National Treasury will continue to monitor that, Gordhan said.He stressed that government will use its R500 billion-per-year procurement programme to develop local industries, broaden economic participation and create jobs. To this effect new preferential procurement regulations were gazetted last month and further procurement reforms will follow, Gordhan said. To read Pravin Gordhan&#8217;s full budget speech, please click here.