As finance minister Pravin Gordhan prepares to present the 2017 budget, the entire country is aware that there&#8217;s a lot more at stake than whether or not South Africans will be paying more for whisky and cigarettes next month. What he comes up with is both politically and economically crucial.Speaking at a briefing hosted by the South African Council of Shopping Centres in Cape Town on Tuesday, political analyst Daniel Silke suggested that South Africa&#8217;s near-term future remains in the balance. This is a year in which South Africa will either emerge from the bonds that have held us back, or it will be a year that will continue to provide concern and even possibly set the scene for a fairly combustible near future in advance of the 2019 general election, Silke said.Already the parliamentary year has begun with the chaos around the State of the Nation address by President Zuma. Apart from the violence inside and outside of the National Assembly, the country saw a president whose standing remains very uncertain. This time last year, Zuma was pinned down, said Silke. It was almost as though there were times we thought he would be forced out of office. But he bounced back. In his address, Zuma concentrated on the idea of &#8216;radical economic transformation&#8217;, but he gave little of the policy direction the country really needs to kick-start its economy. Economic growth in this country is simply too low, Silke said. We&#8217;re not in a recession, but we barely grew at all last year, and if you don&#8217;t grow, you don&#8217;t provide for your people and you don&#8217;t create jobs. This year we are expected to improve our GDP growth rate, but that is largely on the back of better commodity prices, not because we have introduced better policies, he added. Our GDP growth rates have now fallen behind the rate of population increase, which means that we are seeing declining per capita incomes. In statistical terms, that means that South Africans are getting poorer. The country&#8217;s unemployment rate also remains stubbornly high. The data for youth unemployment is particularly disturbing, said Silke. About half of young South Africans able to work are now out of work. That is a recipe for social instability. This is the milieu into which Gordhan has to present his budget. And he knows that his audience is not just South Africans, but the international ratings agencies that remain very close to downgrading the country&#8217;s sovereign debt rating. This budget is an important test for how we come across to those ratings agencies, Silke argued. Do we spend prudently and wisely? What kind of tax changes will we have? And can we trust the government to manage treasury effectively, and without political favour? Some people in government have questioned why the country should pay attention to the ratings agencies at all, and pointed out that their reputations are hardly unblemished. But the reality is that a downgrade will mean that South Africa will have to pay higher interest rates on its debt, and that means less in the budget for government programmes. Whether you like them or not, the ratings agencies are part of the global financial system, Silke said. And whether you like the global financial system or not, if you don&#8217;t play the game you will create serious ramifications for SA. There are therefore a few important things to look out for in the budget. The first is what Gordhan says about nuclear power. This is a huge issue because the spend is so great, Silke pointed out. We are potentially going to spend billions. The first question is do we need it. The second is do we have enough cash. Ratings agencies are going to be watching this carefully because I&#8217;m not sure we have enough funds at the moment to commit to a programme. Secondly, there are serious questions around how government will source the extra tax it needs to fund the budget deficit. Will Gordhan announce personal income tax increases on a population that is already relatively highly taxed? South Africa is already one of the most highly-taxed countries in the world relative to its GDP, Silke said. Economist Mike Schussler shows that personal income tax revenue as a percentage of GDP is higher than most countries. This is an issue for Gordhan as more tax on individuals means that they will have less money to spend, and that has knock-on effects on the economy. How then will he manage the requirement to raise more revenue?Will he change the tax brackets, or simply allow for bracket creep by not making adjustments for inflation? Will he introduce a wealth tax, or an additional tax bracket for high income earners? And does he have scope to increase VAT? VAT rates in South Africa are marginally below those of other countries on this continent, Silke argued. And an increase by 1% or 2% would largely address the budget shortfall. But what&#8217;s unattractive about that is that it hits the poor and is politically unpopular. Having said that, this is not an election year, and so this might be a good time to do it. 