McDonald s Corporation is getting customers back into its restaurants after years of declining traffic, helped by drink deals and more upscale burgers.The company saw an increase in US diners last quarter &#8212; a key milestone that has proved elusive to chief executive officer Steve Easterbrook &#8212; and posted same-store sales that handily beat analysts estimates. The shares rose most in three months, hitting a record high. The results mark a victory for the 49-year-old CEO, who has been working to overhaul McDonald s for the past two years. Even after he managed to increase sales at the world s largest restaurant chain &#8212; helped by higher prices &#8212; it s taken longer to get more people in the door. You can increase sales by raising prices, but that s not sustainable, said Michael Halen, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. This is good, strong sustainable growth. The shares gained as much as 5.1% to $159.64 in New York, the biggest intraday gain since April 25. They had increased 25% this year through Monday s close.As many of its fast-food competitors struggle, McDonald s has boosted sales with cheaper drinks, all-day breakfast and higher-quality chicken. The chain is also improving kitchen equipment to make its food taste better. Same-store sales rose for the eighth-straight quarter, and its domestic gain of 3.9% beat analysts estimate of 3.2%.Taking noticeEasterbrook, who took over in March 2015, also has contended with a record run of grocery deflation that has made restaurants a tougher sell to many Americans. Chains have had to work harder to compete with supermarkets, where eggs and other staples are increasingly cheap. We re building a better McDonald s and more customers are noticing, Easterbrook said in a statement.Second-quarter revenue amounted to $6.05 billion, beating the average analyst estimate of $5.96 billion. Earnings rose to $1.70 a share, compared with a projection of about $1.62.Globally, same-store sales gained 6.6%, well ahead of the 4% predicted by analysts, according to Consensus Metrix.McDonald s traffic had dropped domestically for the past four years. While Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonald s posted surprisingly strong sales in the first quarter, customer counts were still negative.In March, company executives said McDonald s had lost over 500 million transactions in its home market since 2012. Most of those customers defected to other traditional fast-food competitors, not fancier or fast-casual chains like Chipotle Mexican Grill and Panera Bread Co, according to company officials.McDonald s sees delivery services and digital ordering options as the key to attracting more diners. It hasn t been easy. US competitors are advertising steeply discounted food and new fare. In response, Easterbrook has tried to overhaul the company s menu and added all-day breakfast in the US in 2015. 2017 Bloomberg