Around the world, the asset management industry is feeling slightly nervous. There is an appreciation that disruption is coming, but no one is sure where it will come from.The beginnings of change are already happening in the way that advisors and investors engage with asset managers. The user-generated ratings website Sharing Alpha, developed by Oren Kaplan and his brother, has created a stir in Europe where it is giving financial advisors a more prominent voice.Speaking at the RMI Investment Managers Leading Insights Seminar on Tuesday Kaplan explained that they identified two major problems in the industry. The first is that most traditional fund ratings are based on past performance, yet this on its own is a very poor indicator of how a fund will perform in future. There is $100 trillion invested with active managers around the globe and most investors decide which fund to select based on how they have performed in the past, says Kaplan. Despite all the research showing that this gives no indication of future performance, it gives them some comfort. The second problem is that investors have no reliable way of rating how good their advisors are at selecting funds. Advisors have no way of creating a proven track record for themselves in this regard. An advisor could work in the industry for 30 years but have no way to present their proven track record to potential or existing clients, says Kaplan. It&#8217;s all based on their marketing or sales capabilities. That&#8217;s unlike a fund manager that has a fact sheet on which they can show how they&#8217;ve added value. Advisors that work with fund selection or asset allocation have no way of proving that they add value. Price, people and portfolioSharing Alpha was developed to address both of these issues. As a user-generated fund rating platform it creates both the means for funds to be independently rated on measures other than past performance, and a way for advisors to demonstrate their skill at selecting funds. We invite advisors from all around the world to rate funds, says Kaplan, and the incentive we provide is that we then rank the raters. We compare their rating with the performance of the funds over time, and if there&#8217;s a match they receive a higher rating on our platform. These two mechanisms of people rating funds and us then rating how well they do that solves the two problems. The funds are all given ratings not on how they perform, but on the parameters of price, people and portfolio. The first looks at the costs associated with the fund, the second considers the team responsible for the fund and issues such as manager tenure, and the third covers how the fund is put together. Each of those parameters can be drilled down into and rated separately, so it&#8217;s very similar to a due diligence questionnaire, says Kaplan. Advisors can also give different weightings to these parameters, so if they believe that one will have greater influence than another on a fund&#8217;s future performance they can give it a higher weighting. Widsom of the crowdThe platform is built on the same concept as TripAdviser, which works on the &#8216;wisdom of the crowd&#8217;. And increasingly people want to use these kinds of user ratings systems that they believe offer the best independent viewpoint.Where Sharing Alpha differs, however, is that only the ratings from professional fund buyers are used in the fund ratings on the site. This reduces the possibility of fund managers rating their own funds highly, or competitors giving poor ratings. Secondly, as time goes by, people receive a ranking from us in terms of how good they are at fund selection, Kaplan says. We use that rating in order to improve the overall fund ratings. Instead of using an equally-weighted average of all the weightings given to a fund, we use a weighted average. Those who have a high rating, which means a better track record in terms of fund selection, influence the ratings more than than those who don&#8217;t have that track record. Kaplan believes this also reduces the risk of the system being &#8216;gamed&#8217; by someone who wants to try to push a fund rating higher or lower. If they are wrong about how the fund performs, ultimately their opinion will count for less.Where Sharing Alpha also differs from traditional fund ratings agencies is that it has scope for much broader coverage. Ratings agencies might rate all 100 000 funds in the world on a past performance quantitative basis, but only a few thousand will have a qualitative rating, says Kaplan. That&#8217;s a huge gap in the market and we see it as an issue because research has shown that smaller funds or newer funds which are not rated sometimes have a greater chance of creating alpha in the future. The way that analysts on the platform are rated also means that there is as much incentive to rate a fund poorly as there is to give a good rating. Generally traditional fund ratings agencies will only spend time analysing funds that they believe are going to perform well. We give users on the platform an opportunity to look at funds that they have a negative conviction towards, explains Kaplan. They can warn people not to put assets in those funds. Their hit score is as good whether they choose a winning manager or someone who doesn t create alpha. Sharing Alpha has global coverage and therefore also includes South African funds. Local advisors and analysts therefore have the opportunity to engage with the platform and use it as a tool for themselves and their clients.