Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading on a price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio of just below 25. It&#8217;s long-term average is under 16.The P/E ratio on the FTSE/JSE All Share Index is around 20. The long-term average for the market is 15.Of course P/E multiples are not everything, but they are widely used for good reason. They are a pretty good indicator of whether equities are cheap or expensive, and at the moment they are decidedly on the pricey side.It is, however, not that difficult to find analysts, investors and asset managers who are quick to add caveats to this. One of the most common is that these metrics are distorted by a few very big companies.In South Africa, Naspers is currently trading on a P/E multiple of somewhere north of 120 times. If you removed that influence from the index, they say, the market would look less pricey.There&#8217;s a similar story in the US, where Amazon&#8217;s P/E is close to 200. Facebook appears less demanding at around 37 times earnings, but once again, the index valuation looks a bit different if you strip out these and other expensive technology companies.Some will also tell you that the current market conditions are exceptional. There&#8217;s so much liquidity in the world pushing equity prices higher, and as long as they keep going up you&#8217;re missing out if you don&#8217;t stay invested, regardless of how stretched valuations look.Perhaps the biggest caveat however, is that even if equity markets are very expensive, where else do you invest? What is the alternative?It&#8217;s pretty difficult to find value in any asset class anywhere in the world. Nothing is obviously appealing.This issue is highlighted by billionaire investor Howard Marks in his most recent memo to clients of Oaktree Capital. After detailing why he believes that there is too much money and too little fear in markets and that risks are extremely high, he notes that many investors remain bullish on equities because they don&#8217;t see any other option.Relative to other asset classes, you could even make the argument that equities offer value. In many parts of the developed world, the dividend yield on blue chip stocks is higher than the yields on government bonds. And when you have the chance for capital growth in equities as well, surely that&#8217;s attractive.The problem, as Marks points out, is that while the prices and prospective returns on many things are justifiable today relative to other things, you can&#8217;t eat (or spend) relative returns .Marks is not predicting an imminent market crash or advising that everyone should flee into cash, but rather that investors should be acting with a bit more caution than currently seems to be the case. It&#8217;s not that these things are doomed, just that their returns may not fully justify their risk, he notes. And more importantly, that they show the temperature of today&#8217;s market to be elevated. Not a nonsensical bubble just high and therefore risky. In this environment, Marks says, you have to know how to bear risk intelligently, striving for return while keeping an eagle-eye on the potential adverse consequences .This is a vital consideration for investors. How are they managing risk, and are they scrutinising how their fund managers are managing risk?There&#8217;s unlikely to be any point in being a total bear and pulling all your money into cash. Even if there is a market crash, over the long term, markets will go up again and timing your re-entry is almost impossible.But you do have to be circumspect. Don&#8217;t chase returns, diversify your risk and be prepared to give up some upside in return for greater protection.Importantly, be prepared for the possibility that markets may correct, and that the value of your investments will go down. But that&#8217;s not the moment to panic. Rather it is the time to feel more confident.As Marks puts it: You want to take risk when others are fleeing from it, not when they&#8217;re competing with you to do so. 