In February 2016 a little known forex training teacher launched what he called &#8216;Africa&#8217;s first cryptocurrency&#8217;. Refiloe Nkele, better known as Ref Wayne, brought out Pipcoin, which traded at an initial price of R100 each.When the offering was scrutinised, however, a number of serious questions were raised. The currency initially had no blockchain to view and verify transactions, which is the basis of any true cryptocurrency, and there was no mining, which is the transparent process through which more of these currencies come into circulation.Pipcoin only offered a centralised platform on which it could be traded, and it appeared that new coins could only ever be bought from Wayne himself. There were also promises that Pipcoin would grow 35% a month, which is obviously not legitimate.Today, it is possible to trade Pipcoin online on the peer-to-peer DC-Ex exchange. If you are fortunate enough to find a buyer, you can currently exchange your Pipcoins for around 0.000007 Bitcoin. That is the equivalent of 23 cents.In other words, Pipcoin has lost 99.77% of its value, and there is little reason to believe it would, or could, ever recover.ArmageddonRef Wayne has, however, been unrepentant. As recently as April he made a comment on his facebook page that he has ABSOLUTE faith that PIPCOIN is going to be internationally acclaimed .When Moneyweb questioned how he could still be making these kinds of claims given the amount of money that people have lost in Pipcoin, Wayne did not offer a response.What&#8217;s more, Wayne has begun punting two new ventures that he says are all born out of the Pipcoin umbrella. The first is a &#8216;forex robot&#8217; or &#8216;expert advisor&#8217; (EA) called Armageddon , which has a website that opens with the grand claim that: You are a guaranteed millionaire .Moneyweb asked Wayne how he could make such a statement, and his reply was that: Indeed, with proper guidance in forex trading and correct usage of the EA, one is guaranteed to succeed. By the nature of the market, however, there can be no guarantees when it comes to forex trading. Forex robots are simply technical analysis tools that can guide trading, or even trade automatically, based on combinations of technical signals. Some of them may be very good, but the speed and frequency of trades on the forex market make it impossible to be consistently correct.The founder of JustOneLap, Simon Brown, has tested many forex robots, and in his experience they seldom delivered any return never mind the returns promised. The reason being that they typically have a ton of metrics one can adjust and any loss or diminished return is blamed on how you set them. Armageddon also makes the claim on it&#8217;s website that it is the number one choice of professional traders since inception in February 2017. Moneyweb asked Wayne on which research this was based, and he replied that: I think the website should specify that it is based on our Facebook page rating, because we are yet to see another EA performing at this rate currently in South Africa. Perhaps this is just over-zealous marketing, but it hasn&#8217;t been changed. It&#8217;s also not the only instance where Armageddon appears to claim a legitimacy it can&#8217;t support.In its brochure Armageddon states that ACM Gold is its &#8216;preferred broker&#8217;. When Moneyweb contacted ACM Gold, however, the company had never heard of Armageddon.The Armageddon website also gives its physical address as 12th Floor Sandton Office Tower . It does not, however, have an office at this address. This is actually where ACM Gold is located. Please note that ACM Gold is not affiliated to Armageddon as a company; and we have addressed the concerns regarding the usage of our name and business address with them directly, the broker&#8217;s compliance officer, Jolene Moonsamy told Moneyweb.Wayne did say that he offers a refund if Armageddon is not successful, although he did not specify what qualified as success.Fund my GoalAt the same time that he launched Armageddon, Wayne also started what is supposedly a crowdfunding website called Fund My Goal . However, some of the advertising on its Facebook page rather paints it as a way to make quick money.This is further emphasised by a claim on the platform&#8217;s website that it guarantees funders a return on their funding. In other words, anyone who gives money towards someone else&#8217;s goal, will receive more for their own project in return.On top of this, Fund My Goal also pays people to introduce new funders. This is always a red flag, and taken together with the &#8216;guarantee&#8217; that users will receive more than they put in, this gives the platform the look of a pyramid scheme.Moneyweb asked Wayne to explain how Fund My Goal worked and to show why it wasn&#8217;t a pyramid scheme structure. He did not however respond.Wayne claims to be a &#8216;master forex trader&#8217; who has made millions in the markets. This may be true, and well done to him if it is. However his ventures should probably be treated with extreme caution. People have already lost a lot of money through Pipcoin, and that at least should give reason to ask whether these other ideas can be trusted.