For many local investors, it&#8217;s hard to feel confident about putting money into South African assets. The risks and uncertainties seem very high, particularly when it comes to cash and government bonds.At the start of 1994, one US dollar bought R3.40. The local currency has since depreciated by close to 75%, and people are therefore worried about losing purchasing power if they invest in South African cash.The uncertainties about the country&#8217;s political and fiscal stability also make many investors wary of local government bonds. There is a good chance that South Africa&#8217;s sovereign credit rating will be downgraded to sub-investment grade before the end of this year, and people are worried about whether that will cause an exodus of foreign investors and how that would impact the bond market.However, a number of asset managers argue that it would be wrong to simply ignore South African assets. One has to be able to look past the short-term noise to recognise the fundamentals.Speaking at the Glacier Asset Manager Day in Cape Town this week, Sasfin&#8217;s Philip Bradford pointed out that, over the last 30 years, South African cash and South African bonds have performed very well. Over this period, cash outperformed inflation by 3.5% per year, Bradford said. South African bonds gave you 13.5% per year, which means you were beating inflation by 5% to 6% just being in bonds. This is not an indicator of what to expect in future, as cash is extremely unlikely to deliver that kind of real return going forward, but it does set an important context. Over this 30-year period, South African bonds delivered a higher return for local investors than global equities, and local cash outperformed global cash, despite the weakening of the rand. From an asset allocation perspective, don&#8217;t throw South Africa out, said Bradford. It&#8217;s all about the yield. Margin of safetyEven though local cash and bond investments may be risky, investors need to consider the margin of safety they are being given. If I go offshore and sit in cash I would be earning zero to 1% in a bank account in the US or the UK, Bradford pointed out. But I can earn 7% to 8% in a money market fund in South Africa. Similarly, the yields on local bonds are offering decent real returns, which is not the case with bonds in developed markets. Investors need to consider these fundamentals when making portfolio choices. With equities you should diversify globally because you have no real advantage sitting in South Africa buying only South African companies, Bradford said. There are very few companies here we could say are the best company in their industries anywhere in the world, and they are attractively priced. However, when it comes to bonds and cash, you are purely making a currency call because you know what the yield is. And, historically, local investors have been more than compensated for the depreciation in the rand by the yield on local fixed income assets.Negative connotationsAs Malcolm Charles from Investec Asset Management pointed out, this shows that investors don&#8217;t have to feel that they need to maximise their offshore exposure across asset classes just because they can. If you say to someone that they can&#8217;t have something, that&#8217;s all that they want, Charles said. So the moment people were allowed to take money offshore, they did that. However, many people now have the impression that it&#8217;s always better to invest in international assets. At the same time, a lot of investors have negative feelings towards South African government bonds because in the 1980s they were prescribed assets that people had to buy and put into their portfolios. Now nobody wants them, but they are one of the most consistent ways of getting returns in a portfolio, Charles said.He pointed out that while South Africa&#8217;s economic outlook is &#8216;not pretty&#8217;, the environment is fundamentally supportive for local bonds going forward, particularly short-dated instruments of less than four years duration. We don&#8217;t like duration risk, and there&#8217;s too much uncertainty at the long end, but at the short end we are happy to buy instruments tethered to the South African Reserve Bank, which is doing the right thing, said Charles. Inflation is in a very good space and we think there is a very good chance of another two rate cuts in the cycle. This would be positive for bonds, which investors are already buying at attractive yields. In April 2013, which was the last time that inflation was at 6%, you had to go take nine years&#8217; duration just to get the same yield as inflation, Charles pointed out. Everything below that was giving you a negative real yield. Today you can take one-year risk and get a yield that equates to what you were getting when you took 25-year risk four years ago. 