Tigon accused Gary Porritt on Tuesday told the South Gauteng High Court that he absolutely believes he is suffering from a life-threatening disease and shouldn t be in court.His belief is largely based on the fact that his co-accused Sue Bennett s friend died four years ago in her sleep, after experiencing stress and suffering blackouts as he does.Porritt was cross-examined by state prosecutor advocate Etienne Coetzee SC in an enquiry about the reasons for his failure to appear in court on two occasions in June. Porritt maintains he was too ill to appear in court. His bail was provisionally withdrawn on June 19 and he was arrested and brought to court shortly thereafter. He is currently detained in the hospital wing of the Johannesburg prison, also known as Sun City.If the court finds that he was absent without good reason the provisional order would become final and he could forfeit his R800 000 bail. That would mean that he would be detained, unless a new bail application succeeds. His counsel Advocate Annelene van den Heever has indicated that she plans to bring such an application if need be.Porritt and Bennett are on trial on more than 3 000 charges of fraud, theft, racketeering and the contravention of several financial laws. The charges are related to the collapse of listed financial services company Tigon around 2002. Porritt was the CEO of Tigon and Bennett was a director.Coetzee pointed out to Porritt that the court has made it clear on several occasions that there is a difference between appearing in court and understanding and meaningfully contributing to proceedings.When referred to the transcription of earlier court proceedings Porritt confirmed that he knew he had to be in court from 12 to 14 June and again on 19 to 22 June.Porritt said he accepted the findings of cardiologist Dr Aine Mugabi and neurologist Dr Yaseem Yacoob that from their respective points of view he was well enough to be discharged and not in immediate danger. Some further neurological tests were however needed as well as psychiatric and psychological investigation.When asked why he still believes he is suffering from a life-threatening illness, he told the court about Bennett s friend and said he fears the same fate. Bennett first related the events regarding her friend to the court in an earlier affidavit to support the argument that to compel Porritt to come to court would cause him severe harm.Coetzee pointed out that the approach in this affidavit is very similar to that in an earlier affidavit of Porritt s when he told the court how his grandmother dropped down dead after suffering the same symptoms as Bennett had at the time.Porritt agreed and said if a doctor cannot make a diagnosis, it is natural for a lay person to draw from his experience.Coetzee confronted Porritt with a note written by a general practitioner he saw in Pietermaritzburg, a Dr Brown. Brown is expected to testify later.She wrote in her notes that Porritt wanted to miss the court date on June 19 and that his co-accused also wanted to be admitted. Porritt said she was confused and the notes do not reflect what he told her.Coetzee also confronted him with the notes of a Dr Mbatha. After interviewing him Mbatha noted that Porritt had a glass of whisky and a glass of wine on the night of June 9 when he collapsed repeatedly at the KEG restaurant in Pietermaritzburg. He admitted to having a whiskey, but said that was at home before he went to the restaurant and confirmed he had a glass of wine at the KEG.Psychiatrist Dr Nurashni Pillay on Friday testified that her notes showed Porritt had two or three glasses of wine.Porritt further stated that Mbatha s notes on the sequence and number of blackouts he suffered on that night were inaccurate. The sequence according to Pillay also differed from his testimony.Coetzee said the state would lead evidence that Porritt, who alleged that he was too sick to sit upright in court on June 22 was much better two hours after the court adjourned and walked around independently and with ease. Porritt however stated that he was in very poor state the whole day. He said his condition fluctuated. He might have been able to walk on his own, but with difficulty.The hearing will continue on Wednesday.