If you re looking for exposure to the listed entities in the financial services sector, your options are &#8211; by and large &#8211; limited to banks and life insurers. While both have come under pressure due to sluggish economic growth and political instability, albeit to different extents, experts warn against comparing the two at face value.Share price performance: Banks index vs life insurance index (rebased to 100)Source: I-netJudging by the performance of the banking and life insurance indices, banking stocks have collectively delivered higher returns since late 2015. The banks profitability has held up better than the insurers over the past year as a result of the benefit on Net Interest Margins (NIM) from the repo rate increases between 2014 and early 2016, while bad debts remained stable. On the other hand, the insurers came under pressure as a result of a low market return environment which is an important driver of asset-based fees. Also disability claims were elevated, which normally follows the economic cycle, explained Renier de Bruyn, an investment analyst at Sanlam Private Wealth.P/E Ratios: Banks vs insurers vs All ShareSource: I-netHowever, the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios show that banks continue to trade at discount when compared with life insurers, which like banks are currently trading at a significant discount to the All Share Index (Alsi). The P/E ratio is a valuation method used to compare current share prices to earnings per share, with a higher ratio pointing to higher earnings growth. Experts caution against using P/E ratios when comparing the two as insurance companies have more discretion when reporting earnings per the International Financial Reporting Standards. The P/E of the Alsi is also not reflective of its underlying value due to heavyweight index members such as Naspers, Richemont and MTN, he said.The P/E ratio along with the price-to-book (P/B) ratio, which is used to compare a company s market value with its book value where a higher ratio indicates that market participants place a higher value on the company, are considered effective measures to compare banking stocks with each other. SA-focused* banks key metricsP/E RatioForward P/E RatioDividend YieldP/B RatioBarclays Africa Group8.3x7.8x7%1.3xCapitec26x21x1.5%6.2xFirstRand12.4x11.9x4.6%2.8xNedbank8.8x8.4x5.6%1.4xStandard Bank11.1x10.3x4.9%1.7x*Investec is not considered in this comparison as the market appears to assume that its offshore exposure shields it from weak domestic economic growth and higher borrowing costs.Based on the key metrics and earnings expectations, Barclays Africa Group and Nedbank appear undervalued relative to their history and peers, said Adrian Cloete, a portfolio manager at PSG Wealth. He said Barclays Africa Group s results will be complicated due to its separation from Barclays PLC but expects underlying earnings growth of around 6% to 7%, while Nedbank s valuation has been impacted by its investment in Ecobank Transnational Inc (ETI). Moneyweb previously reported that Nedbank took a R1 billion impairment against ETI in the 2016 financial year, after the carrying value of its investment in the pan-African lender decreased from R7.8 billion to R4 billion.According to Simbarashe Chimanzi, an equity investment analyst at JM Busha, banking earnings are unlikely to fall below current levels despite weak economic fundamentals. In the short to medium term, earnings momentum will move laterally and for shares like Investec, Standard Bank and Barclays, there is still value to be derived as we expect price to catch up with the relatively high earnings, he said.Read: Bank earnings growth hit 7-year lowNeither Cloete nor Chimanzi expect the South African Reserve Bank s surprise 25 basis point rate cut to have a significant impact on the valuation of domestic banks. The price of local banking shares is related to the yield of South Africa s 10-year, government bonds which are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The relatively low rate cut is expected is to have a marginal impact on the bank s NIM and cause them to earn less interest income on endowments.In terms of life insurers, the embedded value is considered an effective comparative tool. The embedded value is calculated in accordance with a life insurer s present value of future profits and adjusted net asset value. It is attractive on a theoretical basis as its return profile is quite smooth, which makes insurers less risky, Cloete said adding that life insurers are defensive in that their embedded value won t fall as much due to negative market events. Insurers also payout a portion of growth in embedded value, which often makes for a good dividend yield.According to Cloete, MMI and Liberty are trading at discounts of 22% and 20% to their respective embedded values, after having reported results that did not meet market expectations. While Discovery and Sanlam are trading at premiums of 67% and 28% to their respective embedded values. Discovery s embedded value understates the value of the company as its exposure to Ping An in China and its other joint ventures in Asia aren t counted. It appears expensive but there is a lot of potential, he said. Sanlam s premium is a result of its consistent solid performance and higher growth in embedded value than cost of capital, he said. Old Mutual, which does not publish the embedded value for the group is trading at a 14% discount to the adjusted group net asset value (NAV). He sees value in MMI due to its exposure to the mass market and Old Mutual, whose managed separation is expected to unlock value for shareholders. Liberty is also considered undervalued as its full-year earnings are expected to rebound quite strongly off a low base. In a voluntary trading update, Liberty said normalised headline earnings per share for the six months June 30 would be 25% to 35% lower than the comparative period but &#8220;reflect a recovery in comparison to the second half of 2016&#8221;. But Chimanzi struggles to see much upside for life insurers. When the economic pressure on consumers persists, life insurance policies are often the first they let go of. Insurers with aggressive actuarial assumptions such as Discovery will perform poorly in a weakening economy. At the moment, Sanlam which has conservative actuarial assumptions offers the most value among the life insurers, he said. He recommends being overweight on banks and underweight on life insurers.Cloete said banks are more risky than insurers as they are more susceptible to macroeconomic and political headwinds but their earnings are reasonably consistent and their earnings volatility is quite low. He said the life insurers share prices should be less volatile due to their relatively stable embedded values. 