Famous Brands has had some stunning successes since listing on the JSE in 1994 as effectively a Steers franchising business. Debonairs Pizza, acquired in 1997, now has as many outlets as Steers itself and is growing faster, mainly thanks to demand from black, middle-class customers. The 2003 acquisition of Pleasure Foods brought Wimpy into the fold and gave the group scale, as well as a third growth vector.The Mugg &amp; Bean deal in 2009, for R104 million, was arguably an even bigger masterstroke. Under Famous Brands, the franchise has more than doubled (from 96 when it took ownership to 219 as at February) and the brand has been extended into a number of interesting formats, such as petrol station forecourts and, more recently, inside Pick n Pay stores. Its centralised manufacturing and distribution businesses are world class, and in some ways have defined the model for a multi-brand operator.But, for all these hits, the company has notched up some noticeable misses in its model that demands acquisitive growth.Still missing chickenThe 2002 master licence deal to roll out Church s Chicken in South Africa and a number of other countries on the continent was a disaster. The agreement was exited after a year. At the time, it had been trying to mount a challenge against market leader KFC, something it s been unable to do (since). Its most recent go at the segment, flame-grilled brand Giramundo which it bought in 2010, has dwindled from more than 20 outlets to 11 as at February. Perhaps the most success it has had with chicken is rolling out a flame-grilled proposition in Steers recently.Pubs business fadingFamous Brands entered the pubs segment in 2010 with its purchase of the KEG, McGinty s and O Hagans brands. It was symbolic for then CEO Kevin Hedderwick, considering he had run the KEG franchising business earlier in his career. In 2014, the group had 37 franchised outlets across the KEG, O Hagans and Brewers Guild brands. As at February, that number has halved to 19. This, despite a boom in the brewpub/craft beer segment locally and globally. Last year it opened a pilot craft beer restaurant in Umhlanga (14 on Chartwell) but the group hasn t proceeded with a deliberate entry into this segment.Froyo boom, bustWakaberry and the broader frozen yoghurt category can really be summed up in a single word: hype. At the time of Famous Brands acquisition of 70% of the market leader in 2014, the sky was the limit. There were 33 stores at the time of the R47 million deal, and the group saw immediate potential for this to grow to around 50 inside 12 months. As early as February 2015, the group noted that the explosion of activity experienced in [the category s] start-up phase has subsided noticeably . It spoke of intensive re-engineering of the brand. At that point, the store network had grown to 37. A year later (FY16), it was at 35 and it booked a R12 million impairment on the brand which it says arose due to the challenges experienced in the frozen yoghurt industry . At the end of FY17, Wakaberry has a network of just 25 stores (one of those in Namibia).Nigeria meant school feesThe acquisition of 49% of the Mr Bigg s operation in Nigeria from UAC Restaurants in 2013 was left field. It was a bold move that gave Famous Brands a decent footprint in the continent s largest market (then by population, not by GDP) in a way that did not require undue risk. The R47.5 million purchase price meant the 165 restaurant operation was valued at around R100 million.At the time, Hedderwick said the group was under no illusions, the Mr Bigg s business in Nigeria required a strategy of repair, consolidate and then grow. That s going to take some patience and we re there for the long haul. So we will be patient but at the same time very optimistic about the future of Mr Bigg s in Nigeria. Soon after the deal, it adjusted the value of its equity-accounted stake upwards to R51 million. This year, it recognised a R20 million impairment on the value of its stake in UACR. It remains loss making (the loss narrowed to 28 million naira from 134 million naira a year prior (on revenue of 1.2 billion and 1.1 billion naira, respectively).The number of Mr Bigg s outlets has shrunk from the 165 to 134 as at February 2016 and 113 as at end-February this year.Steers retreats after a modest UK entry This must have hurt. At the time, Hedderwick spoke about always wanting to take Steers into the UK . The maiden restaurant in Clapham (London) was followed fairly quickly with a second outlet in Twickenham. At that point, the group said the further roll-out of the brand will take place at a measured pace . In its February 2016 annual report, it said it planned on opening a further two Steers outlets in the UK in the year ahead . Fast forward a year: The Steers brand has failed to gain traction in the UK market, with only one restaurant remaining. There are no plans to grow this footprint. ***What of Gourmet Burger Kitchen (GBK) in the UK? Already FY17 results were hit by more than R100 million of once-off non-operational items , not insignificant given that total operating profit (excluding these) was R938 million. Margins have also been impacted given that GBK trades at significantly lower margins than the rest of the group s franchising operations. Will GBK be an engine of growth or an expensive distraction? That s the R2.1 billion question * Hilton Tarrant works at immedia. He can still be contacted at hilton@moneyweb.co.za.* He owns shares in Famous Brands, first purchased in May 2013.