The massive inflows into index funds around the world over the last decade have rendered most of the &#8216;active versus passive debate&#8217; meaningless. Investors clearly see value in these strategies, and many now have long-term track records that speak for themselves.The discussion has rather moved on to what the rise in passive strategies means for the way markets operate. In particular, what happens to equity markets, which are fundamentally dependent on competing viewpoints, when a large proportion of stocks are held in passive funds. This has to make them less efficient, says Karl Leinberger, the chief investment officer at Coronation. I don&#8217;t think that&#8217;s a controversial statement. The issue is quantum. Efficient price discoveryThe impacts may currently be small, but Leinberger believes there is a point where they become significant. And I would think that that progression would be non linear, he says. Over time it will become bigger and bigger as passive market share grows, and the impact will be more marked for every percent gain in market share. Just this week, the global head of foreign exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley, Hans Redeker, raised concerns that large amounts of money being directed into passive strategies make the market less able to react to minor distortions or minor declines on the fundamentals side. You will not see the market direction. You will see just a continued inflow of funds .Since this unknown territory, nobody yet knows at what point the issue becomes a serious one. Deborah Fuhr, managing partner at ETFGI, however believes that whatever that point is, we are still a very long way from it. In the US, exchange-traded funds are only 11.4% of mutual fund assets, she points out. So they are still quite small. Overall in the US, index management is probably 30% of all market assets. So while nobody knows the threshold at which you can say there is too much money in index funds, it&#8217;s definitely a lot more than what we have today. In South Africa, passive funds hold no more than 2% of assets under management in collective investment schemes. But as etfSA&#8217;s independent strategist and advisor, Nerina Visser, says, there is also more to the question than simply the ratio of passive assets under management. You need to look at the proportion of trade, because that&#8217;s what dictates whether the market still has efficient price discovery, Visser points out. And even when we get to the point of 50% of the market being held through pure market cap-weighted equity strategies, the proportion of trading that is attributable to active strategies will still be far higher than passive. This is evident by the turnover ratios of actively-managed funds, which are often well in excess of their market cap, she explains. By contrast, market cap-weighted index funds typically turn over less than 10% of the fund in any given year. Concentrated marketsLeinberger argues that the impact of passive strategies is likely to be most felt in concentrated markets, like South Africa. What happens in this instance is that passive investors end up with large positions in only a few very big companies that tend to become overvalued.John Green, the global head of client group at Investec Asset Management, believes this is a very important consideration. Flows into passive funds, particularly in concentrated markets, lead to less efficient capital allocation. That capital being provided to corporates is not being used as effectively as it should be to generate value, Green argues. And as passive levels increase, and as capital gets deployed in less efficient ways, there are consequences for economic growth and overall market value. This is because less value is being generated for each rand invested. The consequence is ultimately that equity markets are going to be downgraded and growth is going to be less than the best, Green says. So, arguably, your equity risk premium for good firms would increase, but overall returns would decrease. Opportunity for activeVisser, however, believes that one still has to see the broader context. The fact is that all of those shares are currently held by someone, she says. A concentrated market is not only concentrated in terms of the shares that are listed, but in terms of the large asset managers and their equity exposures, which to a large extent will reflect the market. She points out that the Public Investment Corporation, which owns somewhere between 10% and 15% of the JSE, has a SWIX-related mandate. That means that it is obligated to follow the market to a large degree.Finally, it&#8217;s worth considering that the market is likely to be able to find its own equilibrium. That is, after all, its nature.The more money that flows into passive strategies and the less efficient this makes the market, the more opportunities there will be for active managers to exploit those inefficiencies and generate outperformance. Investors will notice this happening and will begin to direct more money to active managers again. The growth of indexing is bad news for asset gatherers because active managers have and will continue to lose money to passive, Leinberger says. But it&#8217;s very good news for alpha managers managers that are genuine investors who care about alpha and not just assets under management. As Visser says, this is why active managers should not see passive as a threat. If anything, I think active managers would want to see more passive because it creates more opportunities in smaller stocks to create outperformance if everything else is chasing the same market-cap index, she notes.