It s probably easier to pretend that everything will be ok. It might very well turn out that way. On Tuesday I provided plenty of examples of just how bad it is out there , and there s every reason to suspect that things are going to get worse before they get better. Therefore, it s surely prudent to at least make sure you re prepared.Build a bufferMake sure you start by getting rid of all expensive short-term debt (hello, credit card and store cards). That much is obvious. But, the trick here is to build up a sensible buffer of short-term (accessible) savings which will enable you to cover three months ordinary expenses. If you have a home loan, it may make sense to build these savings in that account as you ll get a sizeable interest benefit too. One might argue that a buffer like this is a luxury. But in current circumstances, it s a necessity, and it might be wise to try and stretch this to six months. Retrenchments are a reality: I know a handful of people who have been (or are in the process of being) retrenched in recent months. Don t just budget, balance it!I m constantly amazed by the fact that most people I know don t seem to budget monthly. If you don t plan or track what you spend your money on, how could you hope to get a grip on it? Drawing up a detailed and reasonable budget of exactly how much you anticipate to spend and on what is a first step. But, once you ve done this, you ll probably find that things don t quite add up. Now, you ll actually need to balance your budget and make sure you re not living on your credit card from month to month (as so many do). Savings clearly need to be factored in. Finally, start tracking your every purchase/transfer/payment monthly. This is the only way to know whether or not your budget is anywhere near realistic, where you can cut back and where you ve made mistakes.Cut the crudBeware the debit order! As part of your budget, interrogate each debit order that goes off your account monthly. Along with this, figure out what recurring expenses you have monthly. Then, start cutting back. I don t mean getting rid of medical aid or insurance! Some expenses are non-negotiables. But, you could ask your insurance provider to relook at your premium. But focus on those expenses which can be reduced or stopped altogether. Do you really need the garden service twice a week? Why do you still have that 3G dongle on contract when nobody uses it anymore? That gym membership you never use? You ll be surprised how much you can save by simply being a little ruthless.Shop smart Repeat after me: shop the specials and sales. This doesn t require a boatload more planning or work than your normal shop. When it comes to supermarkets, this is dead simple. All the majors (even Woolies!) have weekly or fortnightly specials. Buy what s on sale, when it s on sale. Bulk-buy the regulars like coffee or wine or pasta or toothpaste when they re discounted. There is no reason to pay R120 for something that s predictably on sale once a month for R80, for example! This stuff lasts for months (sometimes years). You don t have to trade down to save money. Small, simple shifts like eating whatever Woolies has deemed is the week s Eat in for R150/R200 special will shave a few hundred rand off your monthly food bill (along with the few thousand you ll save from buying smart). And, as far as clothing is concerned, take advantage of the near-perpetual sales being run by our apparel retailers (both in-store and online).Sell unnecessary stuff This is not going to sustain your household income statement over time, but will certainly help achieve the goals of paying off short-term debt and/or building a savings buffer. Take a long, hard look around your house. I d be willing to bet you ll find tons of stuff that you never use. Last year s iPhone in the drawer? The extra TV in the guest bedroom which no one has used since you moved in? Your old washing machine in the garage? That vinyl or book collection you inherited? The gaming console your children left behind when they went to university? Sell it. All. And use this money cleverly. Don t spend it on more stuff!Do extra work This would probably be the hardest pill to swallow for most Moneyweb readers. But an extra income on the side will do wonders for your household income statement and more importantly balance sheet. Many middle class South Africans are being forced into this as their hours are cut back at their main job or inflation has bitten because they haven t smelt an increase for a few years. Old Mutual s Saving and Investment Monitor this year highlighted this trend of slashers people with multiple jobs. This is not unique to South Africa, however. Part-time income from work in the evenings or over weekends could easily mean a good few thousand rand a month. And this could mean the difference between making that retirement savings payment this month, or not .