Kumba Iron Ore has shown its sister and parent company the way to engage with investors on sensitive topics following the response of the board to questions on fatalities at its Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on Thursday.Activist shareholder Theo Botha attended the meeting to ask the board led by Chairman Fani Titi detailed questions over the increase in fatalities (which rose from zero in 2015 to two last year). This was the third successive AGM Botha had attended within the Anglo American group of companies this year, and the questions asked were the same as in the previous meetings. They included the reasons for the fatalities, the reviews that had taken place in the aftermath, how the fatalities affected executive performance reviews and compensation, and the board s response to making the company a safer place to work.Kumba employee Graham Skansi was killed in an accident involving moving machinery in January 2016, while Gideon Dihaisi was electrocuted while working in a substation in May of the same year. After expressing remorse for the deaths, Titi said: We are not at all satisfied with the safety performance. The board is finally accountable for ensuring safety. We delegate to management to implement the safety practices, and remuneration must incorporate these outcomes. Kumba s CEO, Themba Mkhwanazi, who only joined the company in September 2016 after both fatalities had occurred, said: We take this extremely seriously. We have a sacred covenant with the families of our employees that must ensure we return our employees to them safely at the end of each day. Our experience shows that injuries and fatalities occur for very different reasons. But what am I as CEO responsible and accountable for? Firstly, leadership and culture. How do we drive the safety culture in the organisation? Secondly, operational risk management how do we identify risks and controls, and how do we continuously review these? And thirdly, planning, how do we plan in such a way that we mitigate these events? Other board members including Dolly Mokgatle (chairperson of the Social, Ethics and Transformation Committee) and Alan Morgan (lead non-executive director) were on hand to provide frank and comprehensive answers to Botha s questions around the board s evaluation of the safety reviews and the effect of fatalities on the remuneration of executives. I was bowled over by the transparency, says Botha. Not only were they forthright in admitting flaws in their controls, they were prepared to furnish some of the details of the financial compensation made to the families of the deceased and have promised to engage with me further on the matter. Parent company Anglo American was not prepared to divulge this and, in fact, this is the first time any mining company has provided these details, so it has allowed us to pierce the vale. Kumba s transparency compares favourably with the disclosure policy and practices of sister company Anglo American Platinum and parent company Anglo American, in Botha s eyes. Valli Moosa [chairman of Amplats] has not broached the subject of fatalities in his chairman&#8217;s letter since he assumed the role in 2013. This included for the year 2016 when fatalities rose significantly under his watch from two in 2015 to seven in 2016. But the irony was that he did write about the negative financial effects of Section 54 stoppages. And by contrast, when I asked Sir John Parker [chairman of Anglo American] about what compensation was made to the families of the eleven deceased workers across the group in 2016, he told me to trust him . While Kumba s transparency does not exonerate it from the fact its safety record drastically deteriorated in 2016, the company s willingness to engage on the matter in a frank and open way should be lauded as it has allowed the investment community and broader public more insight into what drives the behaviour of its board, executives and workers, when it comes to these vital issues. Are you interested in getting anonymous employee feedback through 360-degree manager reviews? Name* Surname* Contact Number* Email* Job TitleNumber of employeesPlease enter a value between 0 and 1000000.EmailThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.