The fallout from the Global Financial Crisis has changed the world in ways investors and markets are still coming to terms with. Momentum Investments has seized the opportunity to reshape its philosophy and business towards a more client-centric approach to investing.The result is the adoption of outcome-based investing as the overarching philosophy defining the way in which portfolios are managed for clients. Outcome-based investing takes into account the client s investment behaviour, and requires a more intimate knowledge of their needs and financial position, and demands stringent focus on the financial outcomes that matter to the client. It solves normal investor behaviour that often leads to destruction of good investment outcomes if not managed appropriately. It aligns the interests of the investment manager to the requirements of the investor. It s an investment philosophy that is premised on the belief that no one size fits all. It moves the conversation away from product pushing and a best investment view perspective that puts clients into pre-defined boxes, and instead moves towards a true liability and needs understanding and matching approach, says Momentum Investments Chief Investment Officer, Sonja Saunderson.Momentum Investments by example defines a liability as the amount of capital investors require to maintain their standard of living post-retirement. It&#8217;s outcome-based investing s aim to help the investor to get to that point. It recognises that investors are not all the same and they react differently to news flows, market events and how that affects their investment plan.Investors often overreact to certain market events or face inertia and adopt a peer-relative approach, providing a level of comfort in their decision making. Outcome-based investing recognises the need to solve for the goal but also recognises the reality of the investor experience and how this affects investor behaviour and their need for comfort. It s about being able to enjoy longevity in your standard of living after retirement, and that means growing your investment to match inflation and protecting it from shorter-term market and decision-making risks that emanate from the noise and volatility inherent in markets. Essentially, it s about delivering a solution that ensures the investors standard of living continues and they understand the investment plan to get them there, says Saunderson. So how does this differ from more conventional strategies? An investment philosophy articulates how an investment manager takes advantage of market phenomena to then formulate its own thesis for how one can best use an understanding of markets to create value for investors. The value to the investor is the delivery of an outcome in the form of a return and an associated experience in generating that return. There are a variety of strategies that do this successfully. But instead of using only one, outcome-based investing blends a range of strategies in an investor s portfolio. A successful philosophy takes advantage of known market trends that are proven to persist over time. Outcome-based investing would use the proven trends and not rely on just one strategy exclusively, as there will be periods of better and worse delivery of all strategies, says Saunderson. Neither is outcome-based investing new, having been developed during the last few decades globally. After the Global Financial Crisis, I think investors felt let down by the financial system. In the aftermath, investors have demanded more transparency and accountability. We need and want to better understand the risks and rewards involved from financial service providers. We want more relevant information and disclosure. From a legislative perspective, there have been reforms to actualise these demands. We are seeing the development of new legislation in the form of the Retail Distribution Review and pension fund reform, says Saunderson. Momentum Investments approach aims to take all of this into account. Fundamentally, it s about taking ownership for ensuring people reach their financial goals. Says Saunderson: So, everything we do is centred around whether we are actually helping people retire better. This talks to defining the right goal: how do we measure success, and what should we get paid for? But it s also about making it more comfortable, intuitive and meaningful for the client. Do we optimally use the right tools to formulate and communicate the financial plan so that investors know what they should expect? Are we relating value-add to the right level of fees and are we transparent with fees? It s an all-encompassing approach to delivering outcomes that are trustworthy and beneficial to the client. Brought to you by Momentum.