Ever since the great financial crisis (GFC) of 2008, central banks have resorted to unprecedented stimulus measures such as low interest rates and quantitative easing (QE) to keep their economies from the risk of a deflationary spiral. For now these measures are largely maintained and, together with promises of infrastructure spending and tax reforms by the Trump administration, have kept markets in a positive mood into 2017. While indications of possible Fed tapering of its asset purchases later in the year have made markets somewhat apprehensive, the reflationary efforts &#8211; as seen from better growth numbers and upward inflationary pressures over the last while &#8211; have sustained the largely positive market and economic sentiment.Yet people in many countries are generally worse off than they were prior to the GFC. This has had the effect of changing the global mood from co-operation to competition, and from expanding trade and globalisation to currency tensions and tendencies of protectionism. While the market outlook may be mostly positive, the outlook for the year is mired by issues such as Brexit, the outcome of various EU elections, rising populism in Europe, and the latest geopolitical tensions between the US and Syria, Russian and North Korea.To take Brexit as just one example it remains to be seen how the geopolitics and trade related issues will play out. Such developments can easily be underestimated. Brexit gave rise to discord between long-standing geopolitical and economic partners and essentially changes the relationship. This has already had spill-over effects, such as globally-oriented companies domiciled in the major financial hub of London reconsidering their continued domicile there, Scotland wanting to remain within the EU, changing immigration policies, and an impact on the pound and of course the UK economy. In the US, Trump s often aggressive, over-confident and undiplomatic approach precipitates increasing global disagreements and tensions. His book The America we deserve, published in 2000, maligns China, North Korea, concessionary foreign policy, trade rip-offs, immigration and terrorism while reserving military intervention for situations where US strategic interests are at stake. The Trump administration faces a major challenge in balancing the promises of significant infrastructure spending (which takes time) with tax cuts in the face of an ever growing Federal deficit and the disruptive nature of the mooted border adjustment taxes. If expectations about Trump s undertakings are disappointed or become increasingly uncertain, markets could react negatively. China now produces about 15% of global dollar GDP according to the World Bank, yet it has generated half of all new credit created globally since 2005. This bears testimony to China s often underrated role in global reflation/stimulus. Chinese money printing has been a key factor in reducing global interest rates since the GFC and a catalyst behind the rallies in commodities. Geopolitically, Chinese military activity in the South and East China Seas continues to be contentious.Is the bubble about to burst?Some investors believe central banks have inflated a giant bubble since 2009, with assets prices rising strongly despite generally poor economic prospects. Now that QE might be tapered further, they worry the bubble is about to burst. Globally, central bank interventions are believed to have peaked in 2016 and could possibly unwind over the next 12 months. QE was an intervention aimed at crisis conditions prevailing during the GFC. It was geared to temporarily boost real asset prices by lowering bond yields and interest rates, lifting the money supply and bringing forward future economic growth. Given that a deep global financial meltdown and the spectre of deflation have been averted, the tide seems to have turned for the better ever since. This is evidenced by the rally in markets (of which much of the rerating in global equities since 2009 reflects structurally lower long-term interest rates and not just QE) and the momentum of what is regarded as synchronised economic growth over the last while. In view of this, the necessity of maintaining extraordinary stimulus is questioned by certain market pundits. The interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve and rising bond yields over the longer term may signal a change in the status quo; so too would any eventual stimulus reduction by other central banks.Broad money and credit remain fairly depressed with the velocity of money continuing to decline; this is despite massive injections of liquidity into the financial system and still low interest rates. The extent of overall global indebtedness has not declined as many countries are notching up higher debt to GDP ratios. Both these measures signal weak growth over the longer term at best.While equity valuations are structurally higher than in the past and given the sheer complacency prevailing as reflected by the low level in volatility indices, global stock markets could be vulnerable to a significant correction, especially if bond yields rise again and move even much higher.In conclusion, there are a number of factors that cloud the generally positive present outlook of market participants. While global leading indicators confirm that global reflation is firmly under way and signal growth in the world economy over the next three to six months at least, any major negative development would add to future market volatility and vulnerability. So although the IMF has ratcheted its global forecasts a little higher and is now expecting 3.5% GDP growth this year and 3.6% next year, and while markets could push higher after some pullback, it would be prudent not to ignore any nascent market warning signs as the year unfolds.Fabian de Beer is director: Investments at Mergence Investment Managers. 