JSE-listed Renergen subsidiary Tetra4 has concluded a R218 million loan from the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) to develop a compression station, pipeline and associated infrastructure at its plant in Virginia. Renergen listed on the JSE in 2015 and subsequently acquired the assets of Molopo, which holds South Africa s only onshore petroleum production right to create fuels from natural gases harvested and captured from deposits located in and around Virginia in the Free State. Renergen s integrated business model Source: RenergenMolopo later rebranded Tetra4 has already completed the construction of a compression station and signed offtake agreements with Megabus. It is also in the process of completing the construction of a plant to produce helium which it co-owns with Linde. Tetra4 recently updated its reserve: 33 billion cubic feet of proven reserves equivalent to 1 billion litres of diesel. This translates to a market value of R6.6 billion or R77/share, according to a recent Venmyn Deloitte valuation.Stefano Marani, CEO of Renergen, says the loan from the IDC will enable the company to move from a piloted, proof-of-concept phase into full-scale production. The pipeline will connect various wellheads owned by Tetra4 to a central processing facility where the gas will be treated and then compressed ready for transport. In addition to infrastructure, the money will be spent on a large-scale drilling program that will add more wellheads to the Tetra4 &#8220;network&#8221;. The loan is not without conditions. Marani announced on Wednesday that the company had completed its Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) with no objections , thereby removing this as one of the outstanding conditions. Regulatory approval is still required from the government, this will come in the form of a Record of Decision (ROD) which will be issued by the Department of Mineral Resources at the recommendation of the Petroleum Agency of South Africa. Marani expects the (ROD) to be issued in early August. In addition, the company needs to conduct a final review of its geology, as well as provide equity funding of R145 million to Tetra4. As and when we are ready to deploy the capital we will assess our options in terms of what type of capital we will inject, this could be equity or mezzanine, but we are in no rush. We are a chooser not a taker of capital, says Marani. Construction of the pipeline is estimated to start by the end of the year with completion if all goes according to plan due by the middle of 2018.