A number of recent decisions by the the FAIS Ombud have called into question whether the body has either the will or the capacity to fulfil its duties. In six separate cases, the ombud has cited its limited resources as a reason for not being able to investigate.The ombud dismissed these complaints on the grounds that it feels the matters would be more appropriately dealt with by the courts as its own limited resources would not cope with the investigations, or that it does not have adequate facilities of its own to make proper determinations.While the FAIS Act does allow the ombud to make such a decision on &#8216;reasonable grounds&#8217;, it does not stipulate what these grounds might be. The ombud itself has also proved unwilling to explain the basis on which it makes such a decision.The Eccles caseMost of these matters relate to complaints laid against the local office of international consultancy deVere. The most telling of these was first filed with the ombud in September 2014 by John Eccles, a deVere client who invested 304 618 in April 2010 in what was meant to be a moderate-risk offshore portfolio aimed at long-term capital growth.Initially Eccles&#8217; funds were held in a portfolio that had been constructed by his previous broker. This was diversified into a number of equity and unit trust investments, and in the first year of deVere&#8217;s management it even showed respectable returns.By April 2014, however, his investment was worth just 20 254. This included a withdrawal of 30 000, but even taking that into account he had lost more than 80% of his money.This astounding loss was incurred because all of Eccles&#8217; money had been moved into the shares of a single, highly speculative oil and gas exploration company listed on London&#8217;s AIM stock exchange. Initially these shares performed strongly, but in late 2012 they collapsed and effectively destroyed his savings.In his complaint to the ombud, Eccles claimed that deVere representatives Craig Featherby and Neil Pretorius not only neglected him and his interests, but were actually never in a position to offer the service they had promised. It was they, he said, who advised him to make the speculative investment.deVere however argues that Eccles executed his own investment choices, and these were against their advice. Eccles however disputes this and points out that if he simply wanted to control his own investments there would have been no need for him to move from his previous broker and pay the high fees he was charged on the new platform.His complaint to the Ombud also points out that he complained to deVere and followed the company&#8217;s internal conflict-resolution process. He was even made a full no obligation offer of 10 000 by Erica Steeman-Duncan, deVere&#8217;s compliance officer. He however rejected this as insufficient.The investigationThe ombud, however, took a very long time to investigate. After two years, it had only communicated a few times with Eccles and appeared no closer to making any kind of ruling.At this point Moneyweb approached the ombud to query the status of the case. In September 2016 the ombud confirmed in writing that it had issued deVere with a Section 27(4) letter instructing the company to answer specific questions relating to the investment. Under the FAIS Act, this has the same standing as a court summons and therefore must be complied with.However, three months later, in January 2017, the ombud wrote to Eccles to say that it was dismissing his complaint, as it would be better handled by the courts. In this instance, we are of the view that our limited resources would not cope with an investigation of this magnitude, it noted. This, taking into account the involvement of several international entities, some of which are not obliged to disclose information we believe might be pertinent to the proper investigation of this case. Accordingly, it would be more appropriate to institute legal action in an attempt to resolve the matter. The ombud did not provide any explanation as to why it had taken so long to come to this decision, which international entities it was referring to, or what information it believed it still needed.No further explanationWhen Moneyweb asked the ombud to explain the criteria it uses to determine whether a matter would be better handled by a court, it refused to provide any clarity. The ombud&#8217;s office insisted that it was not answerable to anyone other than to the structures provided for in the FAIS Act and that it was therefore under no obligation to respond to questions .To compound matters, the ombud did not inform Eccles that he was entitled to appeal its decision. He was simply left with the impression that he had no other option but to go to the courts.It was only after Moneyweb queried the ombud&#8217;s position with both National Treasury and the Financial Services Board (FSB) that it became evident that he was able to appeal. He then did so, but his appeal was dismissed by both the ombud itself and the FSB Appeals Board.The Appeals Board did not however concern itself with the facts of the case. It only looked at the question of whether or not the ombud acted lawfully when dismissing it.In his ruling, the deputy chair of the Appeals Board, Judge LTC Harms stated simply that: The Ombud exercised a discretion which she has in terms of the act, and there is nothing in the application which indicates that she did not exercise her discretion legally and properly.&#8221;