Minister of finance Malusi Gigaba, told parliament&#8217;s standing committee on finance on Tuesday that a turnaround at the national carrier is urgent. Responding to questions from committee chairperson, Yunus Carrim, Gigaba said it is a challenge that has to be met. I do belive that SAA can and will be turned around, he said. We need to be very firm in how we move in that regard. Read: Inclusive growth must be affordable, sustainable GigabaHe mentioned a number of key issues to this turnaround. I look forward to the challenge in terms of turning around their financial position, route networks, maintenance issues, the fleet they are managing, and the leadership of SAA which has remained unstable for quite a long period of time, said Gigaba. I look forward to us resolving those issues because I think its quite urgent for us to demonstrate our capacity to run that airline the way it should be run. Treasury director-general, Lungisa Fuzile, confirmed to the committee that a new chief financial officer had been appointed at the airline. Phumeza Nhantsi, who had been acting in the position, had been recommended to the minister and he had given his approval. Part of the pressure we had to appoint a new CFO was from the lenders, Fuzile said. They said we can&#8217;t do business with someone acting. Nhantsi had acted for some time and was going a good job. It would seem even the lenders to SAA appear to be very confident in her abilities. The carrier still, however, needs to appoint a new chief executive officer. In a response to written questions tabled yesterday in parliament, Gigaba noted that a short list for the position had been drawn up, and that a final round of interviews would be conducted soon.Carrim however reminded the minister that this appointment was already overdue. The standing position of this committee is that by January 2017 or reasonably soon thereafter the CEO has to be appointed, Carrim noted. Now it is May and we think there must be a deadline. I would like us to think about it as a committee. This is a new minister and we should give him some time, but my personal view is that in two months we must have a CEO, if not sooner. Fuzile added that National Treasury has been working closely with the national carrier and that there are positive developments. The processes under way to fix the business in terms of its operations are quiet advanced, the director-general noted. We have our own monitoring meetings with them every week looking at cash flows and processes, and looking to change effectiveness and efficiency of business. A lot of good work is being done there. While it will take some time for the entity to recover fully, he said that he believes that its needs for government guarantees will decline. It will take a while for the entity to be in a good position, and that will include government injecting substantial equity into SAA, Fuzile said. One cannot say definitively that between now and the cash injection there will be no need for guarantees, but as the equity injections come in now and in future years, the need for guarantees will be reduced. 