SIKI MGABADELI: The Treasury 2017 Budget Review proposed the removal of the foreign-employment income exemption as one of the focus areas to reduce tax avoidance.Joining me today to discuss the proposal and its implications for the man on the street is Lesedi Seforo, who is tax project manager with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants. Thank you so much, Lesedi, for your time today.Before we look at the changes, let&#8217;s look at exactly what this exemption as all about.LESEDI SEFORO: Well, the exemption, as you alluded to earlier, was brought about by the Minister of Finance in the Budget Review. These are documents that accompany the budget speech. So it wasn t said exactly in the budget speech, but in these documents.SIKI MGABADELI: We look at income and expenditure and all of that those thick ones that people don t look at afterwards.LESEDI SEFORO: Treasury has said in those documents that it is excessively generous. The proposal is essentially trying to do away with this concept of double non-taxation that is going on in international tax. So first, as a starting point, you should know that if you are a South African resident you get taxed on your worldwide income, regardless of where it is earned.Now sometimes you have people who are sent on international assignments to foreign countries as employees. Let&#8217;s say you ve got an engineer going to Dubai on a construction project for a certain number of months or years what will happen there is South Africa will seek to tax that income. But because of the worldwide system of taxation, but there is an exemption in this instance where, if you are in that country for let&#8217;s say over six months in a 12-month period, including 60 continuous days in that country, then South Africa gives up its right to tax that income.The proposal is essentially geared at countries that don t impose an income tax. That s a lot of the oil-rich countries.SIKI MGABADELI: I was going to ask you what sort of countries you are talking about there. Can you give us some examples of countries that don t have it?LESEDI SEFORO: These include, as I said, the oil-rich countries like UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman. But you also have a lot of these little islands like the British Virgin Islands, Bermuda, Bahamas, etc.SIKI MGABADELI: Do those countries have a tax treaty with South Africa?LESEDI SEFORO: Some do, some don t. The little islands I spoke of tend not to have a treaty with South Africa, but the oil-rich countries like Saudi Arabia, and UAE do have a tax treaty with South Africa.SIKI MGABADELI: Will there be certain instances where Sars or National Treasury does away with these exemptions?LESEDI SEFORO: The current proposal is to dispose of the foreign employment income exemption. Even if one disposes of that exemption, for people who go to work in countries that have a tax treaty with South Africa nothing will change, because those treaties have an exemption that is almost identical to the one that they are trying to do away with right now. So currently you ve got a situation where people going to work in those countries are relying on this exemption. But even if Treasury does away with the exemption, those people who rely on the exemption that is available in the tax treaty SIKI MGABADELI: I see. Could they end up paying more tax?LESEDI SEFORO: Well, it depends. Let&#8217;s say a person goes to these non-taxing countries on an international assignment, that country won&#8217;t tax the person because it doesn t have an income tax. Now South Africa, let&#8217;s say it has done away with the foreign-employment income exemption, those people can still rely on the exemption available in the treaty. So those people are in the same position that they were before the exemption was done away with.The situation is a bit different for those who go to work in these non-taxing countries that do not have a tax treaty with South Africa, because those don t have a tax treaty which has an exemption similar to the one Treasury s trying to do away with. With the current exemption there is no tax for those people. But if the exemption is done away with, and there is no treaty to rely on, those people will all of a sudden find that they are paying South African tax on that income.SIKI MGABADELI: Is that one of the challenges you ve identified? What sort of challenges has Saica identified here?LESEDI SEFORO: Well, we have had representations that we&#8217;ve made together with other stakeholders to National Treasury, and one of the issues identified is especially in terms of those people who will still be relying on a tax treaty. So people who go to work in countries that don t impose tax, and don t have a tax treaty with South Africa, will all of a sudden find that pay-as-you-earn employee s tax is being deducted from their salaries. Currently with the exemption that now exists, pay as you earn is not deducted from that salary. So they are used to receiving their salaries gross of tax. Now they will be receiving it net of tax. So that s the one thing.Now, these people, when they then have to file when tax season begins and have to file the income tax returns in South Africa will apply the exemption that is available in the tax treaty, which will essentially mean that they shouldn t have been taxed on that income. All the PAYE that was deducted all those months now needs to be refunded to them. So when they do their tax return there is going to be this very big refund. And of course, when you have a very big refund, Sars then audits you.The Sars risk engine will flag you and you will be audited. These audits can take quite some time. They can take a few months; they can even take a year or two. I&#8217;ve heard instances of people saying they waited two years. So it ll take a while for those people to get their money back from Sars. That&#8217;s pretty much the big problem. This will apply to people who are going to work in these countries that do have a treaty with South Africa.SIKI MGABADELI: When do these changes become effective?LESEDI SEFORO: Right now this is just a proposal. So there is nothing cast in stone, so nobody needs to panic. We are waiting for July, because that s when the draft tax bill comes out for public comment. That ll be released by National Treasury sometime during July for public comment. And then all the stakeholders industry and anybody who wants to comment will comment on it and it will probably include this proposal.And then this proposal will be debated throughout the year, going up even to the standing committee on finance. And then once it has been debated and the people have decided what changes need to be made to it or not, it ll be signed into law by the President at the beginning of next year. So we are looking at probably March 1 2018.SIKI MGABADELI: We&#8217;ll leave it there. Thanks for your time today. Lesedi Seforo is tax project manager with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.