SIKI MGABADELI: Time now for our Tipping Point feature, which is about understanding how some of our country s most successful leaders in various spheres became who they are.Today we speak to Sisa Ngebulana, who is CEO of The Rebosis Property Fund. He takes us through his journey and some of the lessons that he has learnt.SISA NGEBULANA: I&#8217;ve had lots of lessons. As they say, money is a the hardest thing to have to create a level of money that s sustainable. But it&#8217;s very easy to do. If you make it easier the chances are you will lose it a lot easier in life. The harder it is, the more you realise that you have to work hard to preserve it and to grow it. It has to work for you. You get to a point where it has to work for you beyond that. You have to put tools in place to be able to do that, and it s easy to achieve that.One thing I have learned the most is that you ve got to be conscious of putting your assets towards creating more value, to make money, rather than the spending side. Your spending side has to be the lesser of the two. You have a lot of people spending as much as they make and that s the most dangerous thing to do because invariably the spending side is going to outrun the making side.In my life I&#8217;ve always said as a rule of thumb spend about 10 to 20% of what you make, or you ll never be able to create wealth. I think at a young age reality is focused on education because in our background folks don t grow up in money as such. So education is the big hope of what you learn at a young age. And most of the lessons about how to handle money are really just what you learn yourself. And the hard lessons and experience that you ve gone through make you wiser, effectively.So that s pretty much it. I&#8217;ve had lots of experiences and opportunities where I&#8217;ve made some good returns, good money. And I&#8217;ve had opportunities where I thought it a great opportunity to make money and I&#8217;ve taken the risk, thinking I&#8217;d mitigated my potential risk along the way and I lost it. I went back to square one. I lost everything I had made before on one opportunity.So life teaches lessons where you just realise you should preserve what you ve done and what you ve worked for, and you can&#8217;t risk it going forward. You ve got to have a certain level of risk appetite that doesn t risk everything you ve done in life. The chances are you are going to end up losing it all anyway.At a basic level as a young person, you have to be very conscious of investing in something that appreciates in value. So at a basic level cost should be last on your list. I know it&#8217;s tempting, and it&#8217;s easy for me to say. A lot of young people get a good job and the first thing they want to do is buy that nice car. But in fact that is a depreciating asset. Every day that you drive that car it depreciates in value. In your hierarchy of building value for yourself in life, it should be the last thing. Anything that depreciates in value should be the last thing to invest in.SIKI MGABADELI: CEO of Rebosis, Sisa Ngebulana..