African Bank is gearing up to transition from a loans business to one that incorporates transactional banking. The transition is in keeping with the group s long-term strategy to be a retail bank by 2021. It is currently refining a transactional platform, which is likely to be tested by staff come year-end and opened to the public in early 2018. At that stage, the bank also plans to launch a credit card.The unlisted lender delayed the rollout of the platform by one quarter so as to incorporate its loan business into the omnichannel platform, which will have the same look and feel when accessed through different contact points and multiple devices.African Bank plans to compete in an apparently saturated and competitive transactional banking market on price, functionality and product, said chief executive Brian Riley.Still, the bank is likely to face stiff competition from Capitec, which plays in the same market, said Renier de Bruyn, an investment analyst at Sanlam Private Wealth. It should be able to offer a competitively priced product as it already has the branch network in place and would be able to run on a modern and efficient IT banking platform. Having said this, Capitec is unlikely to drop the ball, as it will continue to offer a very attractively priced banking offering and highly rated customer service. Riley said the bank is also focusing on attracting retail deposits and will start accepting deposits online come June 20. It is due to launch an advertising campaign centred around building investor confidence soon. You are about to see an advertising campaign, which will show African Bank in a different light, particularly around retail deposits because that is a confidence factor. Are you going to put your money in a bank like ourselves &#8211; with a history &#8211; unless you are aware that your money is safe and that you re getting good returns? he explained.African Bank s history includes being placed under curatorship after its unsecured loans business contributed to the bank s collapse. It was relaunched after 20 months of curatorship in April 2016, with the South African Reserve Bank, the Public Investment Corporation and the big 6 banks among its shareholders. The bank is also modernising and transforming its branch network, which delivered a 17.3% return on equity for the six months ended March 2017.Through partners, it offers advice-based insurance services in branches and plans to introduce telecommunications products. Both services would offer an alternate commission-based revenue stream.Its insurance business posted a pre-tax profit of R388 million, with a claims ratio of 36%.Overall, the bank s interim profit before tax and foreign exchange movements rose 32% to R501 million.Net customer advances decreased by 2% to R19.7 billion, partly due to the group s more conservative lending criteria, which includes a reduced appetite for short-term loans.The bank s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio is 32% but this is likely to decrease by around 4% to 5% due to the sovereign downgrade. It is targeting a ratio of 28%.The group s cash balance, including surplus liquid assets, stands at R11.7 billion, with the first of its funding obligations maturing in April 2018. It is likely to tap the market.&#8220;We have three more sets of results before we need funding,&#8221; said Riley. &#8220;We ve got to show traction, and continue to keep improving the business, we ve got to keep showing that our strategy is working, that the core business is moving in the right direction and we ve got to be an investable business in 18 months time.&#8221;We don t have time to mess around, we ve got to do what s right for this organisation to become an investable business at the time we need funding.&#8221;He said there are currently no discussions at management and board level or with shareholders about a relisting. 