The development of investment portfolios that are focused on outcomes rather than more narrow return results means extending the objective to every aspect of clients interactions with their investment manager and appropriate integration with the financial advisory process. Momentum Investments commitment to outcome-based investing has meant realigning every aspect of its business with this philosophy. We have invested in the right set of investment tools, but if we are to execute outcome-based investing successfully, it begins with financial planning, and that means taking into account the clients full financial pictures, not just their contributions if they are a member of a pension or provident fund, says Momentum Investments chief investment officer, Sonja Saunderson. This implies that Momentum Investments, with the financial advisor/consultant, must account for and consider all the assets and liabilities of the clients when determining how to reach their financial goals, which, in the case of retirement provision for instance, is to provide them with a standard of living they have become accustomed too, and they can sustain through their retirement years. Better information at the input level will help deal with the chronic problem of underfunding, which plagues retirement planning. People need to understand that we have a massive problem with underfunding. Too many individuals approach retirement and realise they haven t saved enough a problem that extends right up to affluent high income earners, says Saunderson. By looking at the complete financial picture of clients, Momentum Investments can see if there is an issue regarding financial discipline and whether the clients are spending their money on the wrong things. This extends far into the realms of personal financial planning. The quality of information also extends to outputs. We need to make the reporting more compelling and intuitive and easy to use than ever before, says Saunderson, as the client really needs to relate to what we are trying to do with and for them. In a world where markets have changed fundamentally, yields from traditional income-generating investments have compressed, and competition has made it increasingly difficult for investment managers to deliver returns above that of the market (referred to as alpha ). Investors now have to be far more discerning about what they pay investment managers for. If there is alpha to be had, we will look for it or try and obtain it, and get it in a cost-effective way. The approach to gaining alpha across investment opportunities can be very idiosyncratic, so it is important to be mindful and approach it in the appropriate way, says Saunderson. Outcome-based investing demands using active (alpha-seeking) and passive (beta-seeking) strategies in an investor s portfolio. So, it means being able to figure out whether investment managers are paid for being lucky or being skillful. We are prepared to pay for alpha but, in reality, investment managers deliver a lot of beta (returns in line with what the market delivers, as represented by broad indexes). That is why our passive investment approaches are so important, because they lower the cost of beta. Momentum Investments doesn t use just one index, but a variety to create diversification, as a way of making sure the investor is exposed to a broad set of investment opportunities across various markets and sectors. The blending of strategies is all designed to produce higher compounding returns, the vital ingredient in delivering a solution that translates to a higher standard of living the outcome in outcome-based investing. Brought to you by Momentum.