The incredible run of Richemont shares over the last six months was paused on Friday with the release of less than stellar results and a veiled warning from chairman Johann Rupert that the market for luxury watches is not out of the woods.The company announced turnover down 4% to 10.6 billion, operating margin down 200 basis points to 16.6% and operating profit down 14% to 1.7 billion.Diluted earnings per share fell 46% to 2.1. The share price, having risen from R81 to R114 over the last seven months, promptly fell to R108.76 on Friday.Of concern to Rupert is the global glut of luxury watches, and more specifically, the response of competitors to this problem. Facing slowing demand, but excess production, Richemont speciality watchmakers bought back (and then destroyed) watches from its retail sales channel. We made a decision to react, Rupert said at the presentation of the company s results. That is mostly over. Today at our major maisons our sell in [wholesale to retail] is less than our sell out [retail to consumer] so our stock is gradually reducing. But I d love for you to ask our competitors if they are doing the same thing. It is no good us doing that if the rest of the industry is force feeding the system like geese producing fois gras. I think from our side, we will be fine but if the whole industry would act rationally it would be quicker for everyone. Rupert added that he views the current cycle as a cycle similar to those of the 1980s (oil crisis), 1987, 2000 (tech crisis) and the global financial crisis of 2008.The good news for Richemont is that the second half of the financial year was better than the first particularly in the sale of jewellery, leather goods and writing instruments. The US, Richemont s largest country, resumed growth while mainland China, now the group s second largest country, enjoyed strong growth along with Korea, the United Kingdom and Macau. If it wasn t for the product buy-backs, sales would have fallen by 2%, rather than the reported 4%.Rupert, whose annual presentations are watched as much for his insightful commentary on the global status quo as they are for news on the company, spoke at length about change in both a narrow and broad context.Alert to the need to remain nimble in today&#8217;s world, the new financial year will usher in much change at Richemont, many of whose brands are more than a century old. Rupert and the Richemont board used the retirement of group CEO Richard Lepeu and group CFO Gary Saage to re-think the way in which the senior management group is structured in a bid to make the company more agile.At the AGM later this year shareholders will be asked to elect nine new directors to the board: four executive directors and five non-executive directors. Among the non-executives are Rupert s son Anton as well as Nikesh Arora, a former top Google executive. The changes we have proposed will strengthen the group s ability to respond to the dynamic markets in which we operate, especially in the developing field of digital marketing and e-commerce, Rupert said.Richemont will not lose the input of those retiring either, as most of the retiring executives, like former CEO Richard Lepeu, have agreed to work with the company as part of a new International Advisory Council or as senior advisors to management. It remains true that a lot of brilliant people still don t know what they don t know. You need scars on your back. It is the transmission of years of failures, not successes, that we can transmit to [the new executives],&#8221; Rupert added. I d like to stay for ever. I m 66 and I keep learning things from colleagues that I ve never heard of. There are things I should have known 15 years ago that we can try to pass on. Rupert, who was dubbed &#8216;Rupert the bear&#8217; by the Financial Times for his oft-pessimistic views ahead of the GFC, is also acutely aware of longer-term change wrought by the coming of the second machine age. If the first industrial revolution was about creating more effective power systems, such as the steam engine which took away blue collar jobs &#8211; then the second age will affect white collar jobs. It s a terrible thing capping students &#8211; as a chancellor of a university when you know many of their careers will not exist in the future, like radiographers. That is why I believe in a universal basic income grant. We will have to find ways to look after people whose skills are no longer relevant. Globalisation brought people better products at cheaper prices, but this did not lift all boats. The change that we will see in the next ten years will be exponential. When you look at our board you will see we are getting in skills that will help us cope with the pace of change. Our goal is to position Richemont so that we are ahead of the curve.While wholesale management changes can be a worry, it seems in this case as if Richemont is being proactive and that is comforting, says Reuben Beelders, a portfolio manager with Gryphon Asset Management.He also noted that the company, which has been conservatively managed, is strong from a cash perspective, with net cash of 5.79 billion on the balance sheet.Based upon the cash flow generation and the increase in net cash, the company has proposed a dividend of CHF1.80 per share; up from CHF1.70 per share last year.That said, no group wants to endure losses for too many periods in a row, which is why Richemont and its colleagues are starting to get very serious about rebuilding their businesses to operate successfully in this modern era.