In typically modest fashion, and barely days after the Trump administration suffered an early setback in being unable to whip Republic representatives in Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare, Trump s economic team has promised to deliver the biggest tax cut in history as it undertakes the process of reforming the complex US tax code.The reform is long overdue. The US tax code is about as easy to understand as a doctoral thesis on quantum physics, and it&#8217;s riddled with all sorts of special interests, allowances and incentives that make it impossible to calculate at least as far as corporate tax goes, who actually bears the tax burden.But one of the key features of the code, and one of its biggest gripes is the high corporate rate US businesses are taxed at 35%, with more added on at the state and local level. This has made the US thoroughly uncompetitive in relation to its trading partners, who have been steadily reducing corporate tax rates over the last 15 years.The other unattractive feature of the US tax regime is that it is not territorial. This means US multinationals operating outside of the country get taxed in the host country in which they have generated income, and are taxed again by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS the US tax authority) if the funds are repatriated. This has led to a situation where US multi-nationals have stockpiled as much as $2.5 trillion outside of the country s borders, in passive forms of cash or near cash equivalents, which has excluded them from being put to use in the American economy.Part of the process of reforming the tax code would entail shifting it to a territorial system and providing a one-time window under which US companies could repatriate the money with little or no tax liability.Trump s point man in leading the reform is Gary Cohn, previously number two at Goldman Sachs before leaving last year to become Trump s chief economic advisor. Cohn, in conjunction with Treasury secretary Steve Mnuchin (another ex-Goldman banker), will be responsible for leading the reform and getting it through congress. Gary Cohn, director of the US National Economic Council. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/BloombergSpeaking to Fox Business Network on Friday, Cohn said: We are going to have a big one-time incentive rate to get a lot of the money offshore [repatriated]. We know if we don t incentivise people to bring that money back it will be invested overseas. We want the companies to bring the money back and put it into the economy. Even if half of the $2.5 trillion was repatriated, it would represent a significant once-off injection into the US economy, which now stands at approximately $19 trillion.Besides the one-off incentive to bring the money back, the current proposal which is still very much at a conceptual stage envisages lowering the US corporate tax rate to 15% per annum. (In effect slashing it by 20 percentage points.)While the maths is tricky a tax cut is a trade-off between substituting higher revenues now for higher revenues in the future given the assumption of increased economic activity as participants respond to the incentive. Although it will have near-term consequences, the tax cut may be a good move to counter some of the slippage that has occurred in the economy.A recent paper seems to indicate that the higher tax rate domestically has encouraged US multinationals to engage in profit-shifting the practice of artificially booking profits overseas in jurisdictions with lower tax regimes. This has been supported in part by a phenomenon called intangible capital , and incentivised through the steadily increasing tax rates in OECD countries (many of whom are the US s largest trading partners).Intangible capital is defined as non-physical assets which include intellectual property (patents, trademarks, copyrights and the like). Bank of America Merrill Lynch chief economist, Ethan S Harris wrote in a note to clients on Monday that: It is very hard to price intangible capital because there is usually no market to generate comparable prices. Hence these profits are easy to shift via low transfer pricing and other more complex strategies. The chances of getting the bill through the House aside, any tax reform that could implicitly result in profits and capital being shifted back into the US, may in the words of the president, &#8220;Make America great again&#8221;.