Sanlam reports that its Rwandan business is on the mend but it is unlikely to recover all the funds lost due to two separate incidences of financial irregularities uncovered in the Soras Group.Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) acquired a 63% stake in the group, Rwanda s largest life and non-life insurance company, for $24.3 million in mid-2014 and has since recapitalised the business, such that it now owns 74.6% of Soras. It is currently working to recover funds lost after fabricated data, considered as part of the acquisition process, was discovered. We found that there was some manipulation of the financial statements on which we did our transaction when we acquired the business. We&#8217;re in the process of recovering that and the agreement we did protected us in that regard, said Ian Kirk, group chief executive of Sanlam.Sanlam also discovered irregular practices in Soras general insurance business &#8211; Soras Assurances G n rales (Soras AG) &#8211; toward the end of 2015.At the time, it chose to suspend the company s chief executive and financial officer with immediate effect and conduct a forensic investigation, which spanned several months, into the practices. It also notified the Rwandan regulator and continues to engage with authorities on the matter. We have referred the matter to the state prosecutor to take further action and are providing them with our full cooperation. However, it is unlikely that we will recover the funds, said Junior Ngulube, chief executive of SEM.Sanlam would not disclose the exact nature of the practices as the matter is still the subject of legal action but said some market and isolated practices uncovered during the course of the investigation were not in keeping with its governance and ethics codes. Such practices were addressed and realigned with Sanlam&#8217;s governance standards in 2016, he added.Speaking to Moneyweb after Sanlam reported financial results for the year ended December 31 2016, Kirk said the group s Rwanda operations are on the mend as both businesses recovered during the second half. In the second six months, both the businesses in Rwanda recovered quite nicely. This is a one-off event, it cost us some money, we provided for everything and now we&#8217;re in the process of recovering the money.&#8220;If we&#8217;d had a normal year, we&#8217;d have brought through another R50 million to R60 million. In the greater scheme of things, in emerging markets our operating profit is almost R3 billion. [So] it&#8217;s not a material number but it&#8217;s disappointing, he said.Ngulube said Sanlam has instituted necessary and appropriate business and governance processes, policies and training in Rwanda to ensure good governance and regulatory compliance. Fiacre Birasa was subsequently appointed chief executive by the Soras board. Birasa was previously chief operations officer at parent company, Soras Group. Sanlam has full confidence in the stewardship of the current board and CEO. Under their leadership and guidance, the Soras AG business continues its focus and commitment to provide its clients and business partners with high quality products and services, Ngulube said. 