Outgoing director-general of National Treasury, Lungisa Fuzile, told parliament&#8217;s standing committee on finance on Tuesday that it&#8217;s too early to tell what impact the ratings downgrades will have on South Africa&#8217;s economic growth. He however commended the new finance minister, Malusi Gigaba, for the efforts he has made to restore confidence. What the minster has been trying to do, and I think quite effectively, is communicate the very consistent message that the fiscal objectives of government have not changed, Fuzile said. He has dispelled the idea that there will now be fiscal looseness. He emphasised that there will be careful management of government finances. Read: Gigaba grilled on views of advisor Chris Malikane One of the most important points to make is we don&#8217;t do these things because ratings agencies like them, said Fuzile. We do them because they make sense for South Africa and South Africans. Fiscal rectitude, fiscal prudence, making sure that we don&#8217;t over-indebt ourselves and that when we do indebt ourselves it is more for investment rather than consumption are good for us. The fact that ratings agencies look at those things is a beautiful coincidence. Read: Treasury DG confirms appointment of new CFO at SAAThe DG said that South Africa cannot solve its current economic problems just by cutting expenditure and raising taxes. Those two sets of actions combined just buy us time, Fuzile said. They just ensure that we don&#8217;t go into a very deep crisis. The thing that will get South Africa on a decidedly firm path is growth. The economy must grow. However, he said that there is only so much that can be done to stimulate growth through fiscal measures. What is really needed is structural reforms of various kinds that will reignite confidence and encourage investment.Read: SA needs to boost investor confidence by providing policy clarity Gigaba There is little that National Treasury can do on its own to grow the economy with what it has, said Fuzile. The most important role that we can play is lobby the rest of government to do the things that need to be done to grow the economy. This included addressing South Africa&#8217;s skills and education problems, finalising legislation that has taken too long to pass through parliament, and addressing administrative issues that improve government efficiency. All of those things are necessary for investment to take place and then growth will follow, Fuzile said. It&#8217;s important that different parts of the system must do their parts to make sure the economy grows. Growth has to come from policy certainty, across a range of sectors, he added. But we also need policy execution very diligent policy execution. You derive benefit from policies only when you implement them. Read: Inclusive growth must be affordable, sustainable GigabaHe added that while the scale of government guarantees extended to state-owned enterprises are a concern for ratings agencies, the concern for Treasury and for South Africans should be that the businesses that government is supporting through these guarantees are run well. There are no many ways about it, said Fuzile. There should be no tolerance for poor governance.&#8221;