Q: &#8230;1. How best should one establish a stable portfolio to the level where one can live off some of the returns? Do I assume a mixture of government bonds, ETFs and blue chips, bearing in mind relatively little capital? Could you nominate a few ideal small caps, considering my age?2. I want to move my tax-free savings account (2017 YOA) into a tax-free investment account (2018), to include purely ETFs. Is this wise? What are the tax implications? 3. I m looking at share trading through technical analysis. I&#8217;m a novice, looking at getting serious knowledge. Where would the best and cheapest place for such a trading platform be? 4. Assuming I had an additional R2 000 every month, how and what would be the best way of investing it? A: May I begin by saying how encouraging it is to hear a young investor so excited about investing and learning more about investments. Clearly you have done some research and have started your investment portfolio with self-help options. Some of the key components to every investment portfolio include:To build a portfolio that can provide income takes time. As a young investor, your primary objective would be wealth creation and not to draw income in the near future. A well-balanced portfolio will diversify across asset classes, including local and foreign bonds, listed property and equities.To provide the stability you are looking for it s recommended to invest in large blue-chip companies, as opposed to the small- and mid-cap companies. Investing in multi-asset unit trusts would be the easiest way to build a diversified portfolio with relatively small monthly investments. Younger investors do have more risk tolerance and should look towards local and foreign equity unit trusts. Numerous top fund managers have out-performed the JSE All Share index and passive ETF products.Investing in tax-free savings accounts (TFSAs) is certainly beneficial to all investors. However, there are a few matters to consider:Numerous software programmes are available for investors to purchase to learn the art of share trading. This could be a very expensive learning exercise, as many of these products are leveraged and your loss could exceed your capital invested.I strongly recommend that you continue your quest to research investments, but consult with a financial advisor and let the management of your money rest in the hands of an experienced stockbroker or fund manager. Once you have acquired more investment expertise then consider allocating yourself a portion of your portfolio for technical trading.It would appear that you don t have any retirement funding or property investments. All your investments are voluntary and made with after-tax income. Provided you are earning more than R7 300 per month taxable income, you can invest up to R2 000 per month into a unit trust-based retirement annuity. You can invest the lesser of 27.5% of taxable income and R350 000 pa into a retirement product and deduct the full amount from your taxable income.The retirement annuity is exempt from income tax and capital gains tax and is protected from creditors. The earliest you can retire from this investment is age 55 therefore a very good savings vehicle for long-term wealth creation.The listed South African property market offers small investors access to quality local and foreign properties through listed property shares or property unit trust funds.&nbsp;&nbsp;