Over the last four years the amount of money invested in South African multi asset high equity funds has doubled from R260.1 billion to R554.2 billion. At the same time, the number of funds in this category has grown from 138 to 222.This illustrates the increased appetite that local investors have for these funds. More money is flowing into multi asset high equity unit trusts than into those in any other category.The bulk of this money has also been directed into just a handful of funds. The 11 largest unit trusts in this category have combined assets under management (AUM) of R413.0 billion, or three quarters of the total.As the table below illustrates, all 11 of these funds have grown substantially over this period, with most of them having at least doubled in size:Source: AsisaIn absolute terms, the Allan Gray Balanced Fund has grown the fastest. It added just under R63 billion in the four year period.The Discovery Balanced Fund however outstripped all the others in terms of its rate of growth. It grew the size of its portfolio by more than 400%.Altogether, these 11 funds more than doubled their AUM in 48 months. Their total growth was R220.6 billion.What is also interesting is that their share of the total assets invested in this category has stayed consistent. At the end of March 2013, these funds held 74.0% of all the money in multi asset high equity funds. By March 31 this year, their combined market share had risen marginally to 74.5%.Put differently, even though the number of remaining funds in this category has increased, these smaller funds have been unable to capture a larger share of inflows. What that means is that, on average, they have grown much more slowly than their large counterparts.The table below puts this in perspective.Source: AsisaThis analysis is imperfect because a number of funds would have closed or merged over this period, making a direct comparison impossible. However, it is still telling.There are of course exceptions, but on the whole smaller funds in this category have not grown at the same rate as large ones. There are simply more funds fighting over the same share of the market, rather than taking market share away from their large competitors.This is a reason for concern for smaller fund houses. They may be managing very good funds, but they are not attracting inflows. The dominance of the big players has not been diminished despite the growing competition.Even though it is challenging to compete with the marketing budgets and distribution channels that the big players command, these smaller asset managers must find innovative ways of doing so. Otherwise they will simply continue to fight among themselves for the scraps in this category.