The world seems to be getting ever more volatile and unpredictable with each passing year. In the space of just a few months in 2016, markets were confronted with two unlikely developments that will have long-term consequences and implications for investors, namely Brexit and the election of Donald Trump. Just recently, the widely-speculated cabinet reshuffle and firing of the finance minister became a reality. The resultant credit downgrades caused a shift in asset prices that few have predicted correctly. It also brought a large amount of uncertainty to the investment process. Investing or putting capital to work is made easier when an understanding of what is happening is clear. Developments that are unexpected and which can be interpreted as negative are not conducive for humans who instinctively react emotionally. People are scared about what is going on. Many people are considering making large changes to their portfolios: Should they move more of their assets offshore? Should they change asset classes? But this is where we, as investment managers, should be earning our fees by removing emotion from the decision-making process, and by helping our clients navigate the markets using their financial plan, says Momentum Investments chief investment officer, Sonja Saunderson. One of the reasons Momentum Investments has implemented outcome-based investing is because it draws heavily from research into behavioural finance, which studies the effect emotion and human behaviour have on investing. Most of the time, the best thing to do is nothing at all, provided you are invested in a well-diversified robust portfolio. Not reacting to fear (the fear of capital loss as well as the fear of missing out on gains) or greed, is not easy. We are all human beings and are prone to this, says Saunderson. There are also significant costs attached to our emotional responses. Changing strategies and portfolios incur costs, explicit (the actual fees involved in switching portfolios) and implicit (lost returns as a result of trying to time the market). For this reason, Momentum Investments thinks the way investment returns are measured and presented to clients don t always do justice to supporting their financial plan and, consequently, has an effect on their long-term welfare. Behavioural finance has revealed how people react the wrong way to portfolio underperformance and outperformance, choosing to invest in a portfolio or with an investment manager after a period of short-term outperformance when they are statistically least likely to repeat it. And because of the way investment managers compete relative to a benchmark, if markets fall and a portfolio falls less than others, we think we are being successful, says Saunderson. A key objective of outcome-based investing is to minimise drawdowns (periods of negative returns). Momentum Investments achieves this through portfolio construction, which blends different investment strategies to optimally create diversification in portfolios that deliver a smoother return profile which, from a psychological investing point of view, makes investors more comfortable to stay the course and, ultimately, helps achieve their investment goals. We need to understand and accept volatility to invest successfully, but the degree of volatility is important too, so we don t react well emotionally to it, says Saunderson. Momentum Investments is also developing new surveys and indices that will assist in keeping the focus on what really matters the investor and how their real wealth is growing. The Momentum Unisa South African Household Wealth Index attempts to track changes in the average net worth of South African households by compiling data on how household s assets and liabilities are changing over time. Momentum Investments also has plans to extend the concept of loyalty programmes into the investment world to reward people for staying the course, says Saunderson, which should dissuade investors from reacting destructively to short-term events. Brought to you by Momentum.Read: The only investment outcome that matters