Ignorance may be bliss, but knowledge is power. After painstakingly weighing up the pros and cons of the various options provided by my medical scheme year after year, I learnt that I can use a medical aid broker even one of my own choosing without paying a cent.Fact: broker fees are incorporated into most medical aid members premiums, whether they use an intermediary or not.Medical schemes pay brokers a monthly commission of 3%, up to a maximum of R85 (excluding VAT) of the members premium. The 3% is built into the members premium, whether they use a broker or not, says Deon Heydenrych of Stapleford Insurance Brokers. Only if the member instructs the scheme to pay the premium to a certain broker will the broker will receive the fee. If the member doesn t use a broker,the fee is still part of premium but the scheme retains it. Dr Elsab Conradie, general manager of stakeholder relations at the Council for Medical Schemes (CMS), confirms that there is at present no distinction between contributions levied by members using a broker and those who don t. If a member doesn t use a broker, the scheme retains the fee as income since fees are only payable in terms of brokers appointed. According to the latest CMS Annual Report, medical schemes paid brokers R57.40 per average member per month in 2015 (R54.70 in 2014).From a Healthcare Consumer Survey conducted by the Health Market Inquiry (HMI) in 2016, it was evident that younger respondents in particular were unaware that they were paying a monthly fee for a broker as part of their medical aid premium.Sixty-three percent of respondents on a medical scheme said they did not have a medical aid broker, 25% stated that they did have, and 12% were unsure.What we should be doingEvery month scheme members pay a significant part of their income for medical aid coverage. With an efficient broker giving guidance regarding the most suitable plan, members could avoid spending too much on unnecessary benefits and save time investigating such matters.The broker has a twofold responsibility, says Optivest Health Solutions CEO Marcel du Toit.The first is to guide and advise the member or prospective member to choose the most appropriate plan according to their health needs and financial situation. The different medical scheme plans can be quite complex. The broker should present their client with the three most suitable options, at least, after doing a thorough analysis of their needs. In the HMI survey, 66% of respondents who used brokers stated that their broker had presented them with between two and five medical schemes, 14% said they were presented with more than five options, and 92% felt their broker had given them adequate information on the costs and benefits of the package they chose.The broker s second responsibility is to assist the member throughout the year with regards to claims and any other matters that may arise. A client whose health or financial situation changes significantly, for example, may need or wish to upgrade or downgrade their membership. The broker should monitor the usage of benefits continuously and advise the member accordingly, for instance to register for chronic benefits. If there is a dispute about a claim, the broker should liaise with the medical scheme on the member&#8217;s behalf. They should represent the client and protect their rights, says Du Toit.Unfortunately, this is where many members are disappointed. When participants in the HMI survey were asked how often they had interacted with the medical scheme broker in the past year, 56% said they had rare communication with their brokers and 16% had not communicated with their brokers at all.On the other hand, the respondents with positive experiences perceived their brokers to be genuinely interested in their wellbeing and were of the view that brokers made things easier. They definitely make things easier, said one respondent. Instead of me reading a 30-page [Scheme name withheld] document, I can ask if they think [a particular plan] is what I should be on. Another commented that her broker fought for her to get a C-Section.Du Toit suggests choosing a broker who specialises as a medical scheme intermediary and offers the products and services of several schemes independently. The more schemes a broker represents, the lower the risk of a member ending up with a too-expensive benefit option.Appointing a brokerA broker will only earn the commission (that is already part of the premium) if a member formally advises the medical scheme that they have appointed the broker.According to Du Toit, many scheme members have brokers linked to their profiles without realising it. Members are able to cancel an existing broker and appoint a new one. Employees who use a company s in-house broker can also appoint their own broker unless their service contract states that they must use the broker the employer appoints. Brokers must be licensed with the Financial Services Board (FSB) as a Financial Services Provider for health business, and must accredited by the CMS before they can render broker services.The CMS s Conradie says brokers should declare whether they function as an independent broker marketing a variety of schemes or are tied to one particular scheme. Accreditation with the CMS can be verified on the council s website.Medical aid brokers are closely watched and regulated by the FSB and CMS, but Du Toit believes schemes should take more responsibility in assuring that their contracted brokers actually provide the agreed level of service to members. By providing professional advice, placing new members on appropriate schemes, and delivering ongoing high-level support services, brokers have an increasingly important role to play in the growth and longevity of the medical scheme industry, he says. Members may view their contribution as a grudge purchase it s the broker s role to conduct a thorough financial needs analysis and provide appropriate advice that will help to ensure that members remain on medical schemes. 