Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) in a statement on Friday expressed its concern over the decision to allow Brian Molefe to return as the CEO at Eskom.Read: Brian Molefe returns to Eskom (without the R30m)Outa said as far as it understands, Molefe had resigned as the CEO for the sake of good governance at a time when his leadership was questioned under the cloud of the Public Protector s State of Capture report.In Molefe s statement dated November 11, 2016, released by Eskom at the time, Molefe said: I have, in the interests of good corporate governance, decided to leave my employ at Eskom from January 1 2017. I do so voluntarily. Eskom cannot simply reinstate Mr Molefe, Outa states. It continues: The position needs to be re-advertised and a candidate properly appointed. The Eskom board and the Minister of Public Enterprises, Lynne Brown, needs to explain in detail what is going on here and put an end to it, says Ted Blom, Outa s portfolio director of energy. This is the most senior executive position of this strategic state entity and there have been far too many questions surrounding Molefe s conduct during his short 18-month tenure as CEO. Read: ANC rejects reckless return of Molefe to EskomOuta says it will write to both the board chairperson, Dr Ben Ngubane, and Brown today (Friday), seeking clarity on the matter, whereafter it will consider legal options and avenues available. Furthermore, Outa recently filed applications to Eskom for documentary evidence pertaining to Molefe s departure. Eskom&#8217;s time to respond will lapse within a few days, whereafter Outa will apply to the court for this information. The Eskom board and minister Brown must not take the public for fools and need to explain with clarity what is going on here, adds Blom. We cannot see any reason why Molefe s so-called expertise is required at Eskom, when in fact, we have sufficient evidence of questionable and dubious contracts entered into under his previous tenure, to the detriment of Eskom and the people of South Africa. 