JOHANNESBURG Recent downgrades of South Africa s foreign and local currency rating to junk have had minimal impact on investors in RSA Retail Savings Bonds, National Treasury says. The interest rates have not shifted much and we are still receiving, on a monthly average, over a R100 million in deposits, pre and post the downgrade. Source: National TreasuryThe interest rates on RSA Retail Savings Bonds are calculated from the larger government bonds that have similar maturities. As a result their movement will impact the interest rates offered on RSA Retail Savings Bonds. Recent downgrades a signal from credit rating agencies that the risk of default has risen and negative sentiment about South Africa s prospects have caused concern about the safety of investing in these instruments.Currently R8.195 billion is invested in RSA Retail Savings Bonds, representing 0.37% of the overall money government has raised in the bond market.S&amp;P Global Ratings and Fitch downgraded South Africa s sovereign credit rating in April in the wake of the cabinet reshuffle in which former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was axed. Fitch also downgraded the local currency rating. Moody s has made no formal ratings announcement yet.Tshepiso Moahloli, chief director for liability management at National Treasury, says when a country s credit rating is downgraded to sub-investment grade, it tends to affect investor sentiment.While government bond yields have spiked, and interest rates for investors in Retail Savings Bonds would be somewhat more attractive, this has to be weighed against investor confidence, she says.Moahloli says it is difficult to determine whether higher interest rates would compensate for a change in sentiment. I m not sure in which direction it would go. It would depend really on an investor s appetite. Is it still safe to invest in RSA Retail Savings Bonds? Listen to Moahloli s response here: BackgroundNational Treasury first introduced RSA Retail Savings Bonds in 2004 to encourage South Africans to save and to diversify its debt mix. Fixed Rate Retail Savings Bonds with two-, three- and five-year maturities as well as Inflation-linked Retail Savings Bonds with three-, five- and ten-year maturities are available. The most popular instrument the five-year Fixed Rate Retail Savings Bond currently offers 8.5% interest per annum. A minimum of R1 000 can be invested and the deposits per bond may not exceed R5 million.The vast majority of investors are pensioners 59% are 70 years or older, while 25% are between 60 and 69 years old. Fifty-six percent of investors are women. The average investment is between R200 000 and R240 000 per person. Pensioners have the option of receiving their interest on a monthly basis instead of bi-annually.While a spike in interest rates would not impact existing investors in Fixed Rate Bonds who are locked in, investors with investments older than a year have the option of restarting their investment to benefit from a higher rate, Janet Brewis, senior analyst at Retail Bonds, explains. The rates that we determine for a month are only applicable for investments that are made for that month. Moahloli says investors with existing investments older than a year may choose to restart their investment at a higher rate, but need to be aware of the risks related to the downgrade setback and the issues the credit ratings agencies are raising.Typically, Treasury do find that qualifying investors restart their investments once higher rates are on offer. The expectation is that this trend will continue.FutureThe RSA Retail Savings Bonds website has been experiencing technical difficulties over the past few weeks due to a migration to a new back office system. The system went live on April 1.Thebe Moloto, senior analyst at Retail Bonds, says the migration was necessary to modernise its systems and improve inefficiencies as well as security.Treasury has developed a new Top-Up Retail Savings Bond, which will allow investors to add money to an existing investment. A new tax-free savings option is also in the pipeline. The products will likely be launched once the system stabilises in the next six to twelve months.Currently, investors in RSA Retail Savings Bonds can invest a minimum of R1 000. Every time an individual invests in a RSA Retail Savings Bond, it is categorised as a new investment.With the Top-Up Bond, an investor will be able to open an account with R500 and add additional investments in R100 increments, Brewis explains. You won t have separate investments. It will be one investment and you will just add on. The Top-Up Bond will only be available at a fixed rate over a three-year term and will be primarily aimed at smaller investors who can t afford to invest R1 000 upfront.What financial advisors sayMartin de Kock, director at Ascor Independent Wealth Managers, says although it would be foolish to say that the South African government would never default on their debt repayments, it is highly unlikely that this would happen. One needs to keep in mind that South Africa s sovereign credit rating has in the past been downgraded to junk status without the government defaulting on settling their debt liabilities. All things considered, I think investing in RSA Retail Savings Bonds is still safe. Peter Hewett, managing director of Hewett Wealth, also believes the likelihood of default on the RSA Retail Savings Bonds is very low. If investors buy to hold to maturity, then they will receive their coupon return without any significant risk in my view. The yields are fairly attractive but any investor that has a high tax rate and is likely to earn in excess of the interest rebate should possibly assess a high grade preference share portfolio or some other form of tax efficient investment, he adds. I would not however be buying these bonds if my intention was not to hold them to maturity as there are a number of risk factors that are quite complex and that can affect the value of a bond. Credit risk perceptions or ratings is only one of many factors that can impact the price of a bond, Hewett says.