Speciality retailer Verimark plans to delve into international markets by ramping up exports as its South African home market grapples with bruising credit rating downgrades to junk and increasing economic uncertainty.The difficult operating environment has prompted Verimark, the seller of products such as the Floorwizz and Genesis vacuum cleaner, to seek growth in new markets including the US and Spain. Speaking after the release of its results for the year to end-February, CEO Michael van Straaten (pictured) said that although it will take time for its export operations to build critical mass and profits, its concerted efforts will start showing within the 2018 financial year. We have in the last nine months exhibited at four international trade shows in Europe (Barcelona), the US (Las Vegas) and Munich. We do see export opportunities in those regions based on the interest we have seen in our products, van Straaten told Moneyweb.Exports would act as a hedge against the risk of rand volatility. Verimark s biggest pressure point and a threat to profitability is the weak rand, as it imports more than 80% of products it sells.During Verimark s reporting period (March 1 2016 &#8211; February 28 2017) the rand improved by 25% but weakened by nearly 6% on a monthly basis, prompting the company to increase the price of its products in March 2016 by an average of 5% to 8%. This marks five years of Verimark passing price increases on to consumers.Despite raising selling prices, it managed to grow its earnings due to extracting efficiencies and cost control.Its profit after tax increased by 184.7% to R37.3 million from R13.1 million in the previous year on the back of a 1.9% revenue growth to R439.1 million. Verimark s cash generated from operations improved by R16.5 million to R47.4 million from R30.9 million.Its performance is in stark contrast to the previous year when sales volumes and margins were in the red after being whacked by the rand, which lost about 35% of its value.The focus on exports to buffer against rand volatility is not a new strategy for Verimark. The company shut its exporting operations 12 years ago, as running the show from South Africa proved to be difficult. Verimark was supplying its products to 50 countries, largely Australia, Brazil and Canada among others. It recently pulled out of Singapore by shutting down 24 unprofitable stores.Exports are earmarked to contribute 50% of group revenue but this is only in the long term.Another strategy to protect Verimark from the local unit is to locally source its products. But this is proving to be difficult, as there are limited products that can be formulated domestically. For example, it s easy to duplicate beauty and skincare products, while it might be difficult for vacuum cleaners. It s going to take time before local sourcing of products takes off, said Van Straaten.In line with its policy of declaring 50% of its profits to shareholders, Verimark declared a full-year dividend of 11.3 cents per share compared with 3.7 cents in the previous year.