I have recently been reading Economics In One Lesson by Henry Hazlitt. The book reflects on the effects of an excessive focus on the short-term impact of economic policy action at the expense of due consideration to longer-term effects. These longer-term effects generally have a greater bearing on markets, and therefore should hold more significance to your investment decisions.Recent market data out of developed market economies have shown greater impetus for higher interest rates. This has been reflected in higher bond market yields, with the US 10-year treasury yield lifting above 2.5%, close to two-year highs. The consensus since the taper tantrum in 2012 has been that this should naturally result in pressure on emerging market bonds and currencies, resulting in sustained fears over the attractiveness of South African bonds as an asset class. We believe short-termism is prevalent in this part of the market as the focus has been on the exact timing of the next US Federal Reserve Bank interest rate hike, rather than the depth of the overall cycle and the implications it has for the broader economy. At PSG Asset Management, we choose to focus on the bigger picture: higher rates in the US, coupled with rising aggregate global growth, should over the longer-term be very positive for markets, providing greater certainty and stability.The global economy is showing signs of a recoveryWhile we do not forecast economic data, it is important to observe the recent trends and facts supporting the direction of global growth. Key leading indicators have begun to flash positive on our economic dashboards, indicating a potential change in the low growth and low inflation trend. Among others a few key measures such as the purchasing manager indices across developed markets (see PSG composite below in Graph 1) have been consistently above 50 since 2014 (above 50 indicates improving manufacturing production), and global commodity prices have risen as well (see Graph 2).Graph 1: PSG Composite: Developed market PMIs&nbsp;Graph 2: Commodity Research Bureau Index (US dollar)&nbsp;In addition, EU economic surprise indices (Graph 3) have surprised significantly to the upside. While it may be early, these signs indicate the potential for higher global growth and a more stable global macroeconomic environment.Graph 3: Economic Surprise Index (EU)&nbsp;We incorporate this into our fair value estimates of South African bond yieldsOur fixed income investment process focuses on avoiding common errors involved in forecasting economic data outcomes. We rather apply a scenario-based approach using actual data to determine the most reasonable (probability weighted) outcomes over the longer term for local bond yields. Historically, the US has led global aggregate growth after periods of low growth, as investor, business and consumer confidence has improved. These up-cycles in developed markets spur growth in emerging markets through higher commodity prices, confidence and trade. In this environment, South African bonds are an attractive investment with bond yields generally falling (and prices rising), and the rand strengthening. As in graph 4, we saw such a scenario over 2010 to 2013 when US real GDP strengthened significantly, the South African 10-year bond yield falling to approximately 6.5%.Graph 4: US real GDP growth; SA 10-year bond yield&nbsp;The above scenario of rising aggregate global growth can clearly have a significant impact, and is one which we believe has become more probable. We have adjusted our probability weighted views on South African bond yields to reflect the increase in margin of safety and expected bond fair value.The backdrop for local bondsThe outlook for South African bonds therefore needs to be viewed from both the local and global perspective. Locally, political uncertainty and fears of further sovereign ratings downgrades remain present. Growth is expected by markets to range between 0% and 1% off a very low base, while headline inflation is expected to fall comfortably within the Sarb s inflation targeting band over the medium term on the back of the significant fall in food prices globally, good rainfall supporting SA crops and a steady currency (lower import inflation) over the last year. While this is in sharp contrast to the global macro-environment, when coupled with rising global growth and stability, it provides a very supportive market for local bonds.We therefore continue to focus on long-term cycles and believe that the current real yields offered by South African nominal bonds remain an attractive opportunity for both foreign (evidenced by the significant/persistent inflow into our bond market of R37 billion year-to-date) and local investors as our conviction in the improving global backdrop grows.Lyle Sankar is an analyst at PSG Asset Management.