Mauritius continues to woo South African investors, this time promising a series of reforms aimed at creating a simpler, business-friendly regulatory environment. The island nation is expected to approve the Business Facilitation Amendment Bill on May 16 one week after it was presented to lawmakers. It plans to implement the changes within a week.The reforms aim, in part, to lift constraints around the granting of permits and authorisation especially for transnational businesses and start-ups. It also aims to introduce e-licensing systems so as to shorten the current two-hour period necessary to incorporate companies in Mauritius. We want to create better reforms and we want to make sure that we maintain our position in terms of the ease of doing business in Mauritius. Other countries are also making improvements and we are benchmarking against them, said Ken Poonoosamy, MD of the Board of Investment Mauritius. The country fell to 49th place in the World Bank s latest Doing Business report from 32nd place in 2016. It remained the top ranked country in Africa. Globally, South Africa is ranked 74th out of the 190 countries measured.Through a series of trade, investment and tax treaties with several African nations Mauritius is positioning itself as a springboard into the continent. But Poonoosamy said it is not in competition with South Africa, which has long been considered the gateway to Africa. Instead, it wants to ensure that the region flourishes. Each jurisdiction has its own specificities. South Africa has a market size and is an important hinterland in the region. We have &#8211; over the years &#8211; developed an ecosystem which is based on stability, on the rule of law, on the competitiveness, efficiency and nimbleness of the jurisdiction, he added. Having transitioned from a sugar-based monocrop economy with a GDP per capita of around $200 in the 1970s, to a diversified economy with a GDP per capita of $9 600 in 2016, it now wants to boost investment into higher-value industries, including financial services.It has introduced tax holidays of differing lengths so as to encourage multinationals to base their Africa-facing global headquarters or treasury management operations on the island. Family offices run from the country are also eligible for tax breaks. Mauritius has a flat tax rate of 15% and offers tax credits of 80% on income generated outside the country. Faraz Rojid, from Mauritius Financial Services Promotion Agency, highlighted the Stock Exchange of Mauritius dual listing agreement with the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and its multicurrency listing, trading and clearing services as further incentives for South African companies to list and raise capital on the island.The country would also launch the Mauritius International Derivatives and Commodities Exchange (MINDEX) by year-end. He said the trailblazing derivatives exchange platform would be the first in the world to allow for the hedging of various African currencies against the dollar. It will also facilitate the trade and storage of gold, diamonds and other precious metals.