On Monday May 15 Lungisa Fuzile will step down as the director-general at National Treasury. It is a position he has held since May 26 2011, during which time he has served under four different finance ministers.Although his departure comes shortly after the cabinet reshuffle that saw the removal of Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas as minister and deputy minister of finance, Fuzile has emphasised that he was already due to step down last year. He had extended his term beyond his initial five-year contract in April 2016.Speaking at the University of Cape Town&#8217;s Graduate School of Business this week, Fuzile was also adamant that the integrity of the National Treasury is not under any immediate threat. This is because of the strength of the culture that has been built in the institution over many years. Any culture that is founded on good values and good principles does not get threatened easily, he said. Usually such a culture, if anything, is a threat to those who come and join it because they will feel out of place. When I make that comment I am not insinuating anything about the new people. I&#8217;m just saying what makes sense. He pointed out that it would be a difficult task to get the deputy directors-general, the most junior of whom has served for eight years, to turn their backs on what they had worked to establish. It would be very hard to all of a sudden make them think that the constitution doesn&#8217;t matter, or that adhering to the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) doesn&#8217;t matter, or to rewire them so that they think that sound fiscal management belongs in the dustbin, said Fuzile. I don&#8217;t want to say it&#8217;s impossible, but it&#8217;s hard to imagine it happening. When you have an institution like the Treasury, it is very hard to come in and disrupt the culture and get the entire institution aligned to ill intentions, he added. That is not to downplay the matter, and if there was an attempt to do that it would be disruptive and it would take away attention and energy from the right things. But anyone who wishes to do that, I would pray for their success. Policy fashionFuzile did, however, warn against constantly changing policies. He joked that South Africans are too fond of following fashions. We would develop a policy framework, economic or otherwise, but before we have taken all the steps that are necessary to implement that policy and see its impact, we lose interest in it and we all of a sudden want to explore something else, he said. All too quickly when we do that we start to find faults, imaginary sometimes, in the policy we already have in place. He emphasised that government has to be disciplined in this regard, to ensure that implementation takes place.Clean conscienceLooking back on his career, Fuzile said that what had drawn him into the public service was a desire to contribute to the redevelopment of the country. We had been fortunate enough as a generation to experience apartheid, participate in bringing it down, and replace it with a democratic system of government, he said. We knew, and had been told, that the people shall govern. We understood that this wouldn&#8217;t only mean that we would cast our votes but that people with skills and capabilities would have to contribute to the rebuilding and reconstitution of our country, which includes the running of the administration. This desire to be part of a process of change was what had encouraged him to remain in public service even in the face of many challenges. Here I am now, 19 years on, getting ready to try something else, Fuzile said. And with a clean conscience, dare I say. I have no reason to wish that I could have an extra day. There is nothing that I could have done that I have not done. Some say I have built a formidable institution, but I inherited a formidable institution, Fuzile added. I hope that I succeeded in keeping it formidable. 