This week&#8217;s Market Commentator Sean Ashton, of Anchor Capital, on why they&#8217;re raising more cash, trimming exposure in Bidcorp, the potential Reinet growth story, the Naspers run, Steinhoff, the reason for a lower offshore weighting than other funds and whether it&#8217;s wise to dismiss the idea that there could be market friendly news come out of the political side. Below is an excerpt from the 25-minute interview, to purchase the full interview, click here. &#8230;RYK VAN NIEKERK: Welcome to this Market Commentator webinar and in this webinar we speak to South Africa s top fund managers and we try to understand their thinking and their expectations of the market, where they see risks and opportunities, and then specifically which companies they like or dislike. Our guest today is Sean Ashton, he is the chief investment officer at Anchor Capital and he s the manager of the Anchor BCI Equity Fund. Sean, welcome to this webinar.SEAN ASHTON: Thank you, Ryk.RYK VAN NIEKERK: We live in interesting times, especially on the political front, even the mere rumours of the ANC discussing the possibility of removing Jacob Zuma as president has had a positive impact on the rand. What is your sense of what s going on?SEAN ASHTON: Our sense from a political risk perspective is that we still think there s a very good likelihood of an adverse outcome in South Africa economically. If you just look at what s been playing out for a number of years, you ve had government gaining a share of GDP via increasing taxes, government expenditure, a lot of it being wasteful expenditure and I think the most recent political events that we ve seen relating to the firing of Pravin Gordhan have caused a dramatic dearth of confidence in South Africa on the part of consumers and it s starting to show up in company results. We ve seen Famous Brands coming out with poor guidance, we ve seen Massmart and Tiger Brands today coming out with poor guidance for the coming six-month period. So I think that s really the issue that we face in South Africa at the moment and I think from a portfolio construction point of view the challenge we have is the South African index is very dollar heavy in the sense that many of the companies comprised in the index derive their earnings from offshore. So in an environment where you ve got a possible strengthening of the rand due to better sentiment around the idea that we might have a Ramaphosa presidency in time to come, that creates a challenge in terms of the translation of those foreign earnings at a lower exchange rate but at the same time we don t yet have an economy that s kicking into high gear.RYK VAN NIEKERK: We have these political uncertainties but the SAVI, the South African Volatility Index, is just continuing to fall, it s at an all-time low at the moment, which means we have the most stable markets we ve had in a long time, why is that? I put a graph on the system showing how that index had fallen over the past few months, why do we see that index falling?SEAN ASHTON: I don t analyse that index in any great detail but I would hazard a guess that a lot of the explanation would have to do with the fact that Naspers has gone up pretty much in a straight line since the beginning of this year in the sense that it s a big component of the index, it probably started at 16% or 17%, it s now 20% of the index. So Naspers running away in the manner that it has, has created an upward trajectory for the market in the last number of months with not too much of a correction along the way. So that would have manifested itself in lower levels of calculated volatility.RYK VAN NIEKERK: Many investors are very despondent at what is going on in our political environment, especially local investors, yet markets seem to be very resilient and for the lack of another word, immune, to what is happening locally.SEAN ASHTON: Again, I would say a big part of that is the influence of the return that you ve had from Naspers. We ve had a completely bifurcated market this year, if you look at the return on the SWIX in recent months, and certainly year to date, it s really been Naspers. If you strip that out of the influence in the market you ve probably had negative returns, I would hazard a guess. So I would say to you that outside of that one factor we wouldn t say that the market is all that sanguine about what s going on. The tricky thing is that outside of the dual-listed offshore-focused companies, all of the domestic companies that we look at in South Africa are battling to deliver growth. In many instances there are still businesses trading at 13 to15 and sometimes forward PE multiples of 20 times, where they are coming out with updates where the top line growth is muted in the low single digits or mid-single digits and earnings going backwards.So that s the challenge right now is trying to find businesses that are actually growing in real terms in South Africa.From a portfolio construction perspective in our portfolios we have a material weighting to offshore, about 18% in the equity fund that we run and that s really a function of not just expecting a much weaker rand, it s about trying to find businesses that are actually growing their earnings in constant currency.RYK VAN NIEKERK: We re going to talk about your portfolio selection in a minute, I just want to show you a second graph and this comes from STAR Capital, an international firm, it shows the relative PEs of the different geographies. It s very evident that although the JSE has a PE of around 15, it is actually cheap in relation to other markets. The US seems to be a lot higher, they are closer to 25 and then in the east you have India that seems to be very expensive and then other markets cheaper. Is this your perception of where the JSE is priced in international terms?To purchase the audio in full, click here.