SIKI MGABADELI: Time now for our Tipping Point feature, where we speak to well-known South Africans about their journeys and what made them who they are.Today we speak to Olympic gold medallist and motivational speaker/business woman Penny Heyns. Penny, thanks so much for making the time to talk to us today. Let&#8217;s take a few steps back. It&#8217;s been a massive journey, one that s inspired the globe and of course a nation for you. But where are you today, before we go back to where you ve come from.PENNY HEYNS: I&#8217;ve just arrived in Cape Town.[Laughing] I&#8217;m joking. Where am I at today? In a very happy place and very fulfilled I think probably the most fulfilled place in my life thus far. It&#8217;s been a long journey, so it&#8217;s had its ups and downs.But finally I&#8217;ve settled back into the world of sport a little bit by way of doing swim clinics and metal toughness workshops for athletes, but then also specifically even in the corporate sphere. And then, in addition to that, doing I don t like motivational speaking because I feel it&#8217;s got to come from within let&#8217;s just say the inspirational/motivational speaking side of things as well.SIKI MGABADELI: Okay. Let&#8217;s talk a little about the sports side of things, the swim clinics. What do you find the most fulfilling with that, given of course your own career and where you have come from? When you are talking to the young people and when you are working with them, what inspires you there?PENNY HEYNS: Well, I love the teaching aspect. I&#8217;ve always believed that as much as I feel humbled by my swimming career, it&#8217;s not just for the sake of what I got out of it, but rather the platform that it created for me to hopefully make a difference and give back.So the real motive behind the swimming clinic initially was just to use swimming as an instrument to get young athletes together, more specifically for the psychological aspects of it, the mental-training part, the classroom stuff that we do in addition, obviously, to the stroke work.And then out of that has also grown a huge demand for coaching. When I say that, I don t mean in-the-pool but the one-on-one coaching both mental-toughness coaching and also life coaching. I and my business partner are qualified neuro coaches, so we&#8217;ve embarked on that as well to give neuroscientific-based coaching and hope to make a difference.SIKI MGABADELI: Do the young people remind you a bit of yourself at all? You were the youngest member of the South African Olympic team at the 92 Summer Olympics in Barcelona.PENNY HEYNS: Correct. That was the first time we were backed. I was the baby, the only school-going pupil going to the Olympics. Ja, I think there are some youngsters in whom I see glimpses of myself, the determination. I think we have a fair amount of talent among the up-and-coming youngsters. The challenge that we face in South Africa is how we continue to keep them motivated and continue to have them improve into the more senior levels, because that seems to be, especially with the ladies, where we have this tapering-down effect.So ja, I do see a few people there that remind me of myself.SIKI MGABADELI: A little bit, right? You studied psychology at the University of Nebraska. Does that come into play more and more as your career has changed?PENNY HEYNS: I think it does in the sense that it just solidified the interest I have on the neurological side, the neuroscience side. So psychology, traditional sports psychology, even though I had some exposure to that when I was an athlete, at that time and maybe it&#8217;s a slight little bit of arrogance, I don t know but I kind of felt like I got more out of speaking with athletes that had been there, done that, who had achieved more than I had at the time, rather than an academic approach which obviously is what we were exposed to.SIKI MGABADELI: I suppose it&#8217;s that experience, where someone says to you, I&#8217;ve been through this, and this is what I faced, that makes a much bigger difference than somebody who says , I read in a textbook that this is how you react .I know this is a difficult question, but could you tell us the one moment where you felt this was the tipping point: At this point if I d taken one decision my life might have gone in a completely different way but then you took the one decision and it went the way that it has.PENNY HEYNS: Well, I think there were a couple. I think the most obvious one would be the week after the swimming finished during the last Olympic Games. I had swum pretty poorly in my own mind, and I was quite dejected and felt like it&#8217;s a good time to retire from swimming. This was at the age of 17. But I had this problem, so to speak. I d been offered a scholarship through the of University of Nebraska-Lincoln to swim, and I really didn t want to go. With everything in me I didn t want to go. But I knew if I didn t take the opportunity I might forever wonder. So I took it and, had I not done that, none of my career would have really existed. I would have ended with the highlight of having attended one Olympic Games and come 33rd/34th, because at that time I couldn t have imagined Atlanta or any of the things that happened after that.So definitely I think that was the turning point for me.SIKI MGABADELI: We&#8217;ll leave it there. Thanks so much for your time today. That s Penny Heyns.