JOHANNESBURG The outlook for the South African economy will remain depressed until concerns about the agenda behind the cabinet reshuffle can be addressed and trust is restored, economists have warned. There is this perennial question at the back of people s minds: Why then, if there is not going to be a change and an abandonment of fiscal discipline, did we see this cabinet reshuffle in the first instance? Dr Azar Jammine, director and chief economist at Econometrix, told delegates at the SAIA Inaugural Indaba.Despite his apparent support for radical economic transformation, new finance minister Malusi Gigaba, has been at pains to point out that policy at National Treasury hasn t changed and that it would stick to the path of fiscal discipline. There is this deep concern that there are other agendas encapsulated in the two words state capture that underlie what has been going on, Jammine added.Until these fears can be allayed, the economic prospects for 2017 and especially 2018 will not be as positive as it was a mere six weeks ago, he said.His comments follow after president Jacob Zuma removed respected finance minister Pravin Gordhan from his position in a midnight cabinet reshuffle, a move that prompted S&amp;P and Fitch to downgrade South Africa s sovereign credit rating to junk. Fitch also lowered the country s local currency rating to non-investment grade. The Helen Suzman Foundation and My Vote Counts NPC on Wednesday approached the Constitutional Court to review and declare the president s decision to dismiss Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas, as unconstitutional and invalid.Jammine said Gigaba s indication that there would not be a change in fiscal policy begged the question why Gordhan was replaced if there was nothing wrong with the policy.Against this background, investors remained scared and afraid that there were ulterior motives behind the cabinet reshuffle. Jammine said there were broadly three factors S&amp;P and Moody s would consider to determine whether to downgrade South Africa s local currency rating. The first was whether South Africa would stick to its budget.The second requirement was that SOEs were managed properly and didn t depend on government for bailouts that would worsen its debt burden. In that regard, there is a mixed picture emerging at the moment. The third requirement was faster economic growth. Without it, government would not be able to raise enough tax revenue to help finance the expenditure required. Unfortunately we got into a potentially downward spiral right now because with the cabinet reshuffle a lot of the confidence that was starting to emerge in the economy has been dealt a telling blow. To ignite economic growth, business confidence has to be improved. Gigaba would have to prove his mettle, demonstrate he would stick to budgets and try and satisfy the broader community that he was going to embark on radical economic transformation, Jammine said. If by radical economic transformation we mean exactly what is incorporated in the National Development Plan, then the answer is we ve had the policy of radical economic transformation in place for the last six years already, but we have not exploited those opportunities. Prof Raymond Parsons of the NWU School of Business and Governance said he was less concerned about foreign investment than domestic investment. Domestic investment drove growth. Foreign investors followed growth prospects they didn t beg.However, foreign investment was important to speed things up, bring about transfer of technology and help the balance of payments.Parsons warned that the NDP could not be implemented successfully if government, business and labour didn t work together. Trust is not like electric light that you switch on and off. You build it up over time and it can be forfeited very quickly. Recent events have forfeited that. No doubt about it. While people said the right things in public, behind the scenes there was grave difficulty . There is repair work to be done and the rules of relationship have to now be redefined. He said an important way to bridge the trust deficit was for all parties to acknowledge that they had drifted away from the NDP, and to return to it.He urged the National Planning Commission to put everything else aside and to update the plan.Parliament approved the NDP as South Africa s strategic roadmap to 2030 in August 2012.