A senior member of the Catalan administration called for dialogue with Spain, warning that all of Europe faces economic damage unless a resolution is found to his region’s standoff with the central government in Madrid. After a weekend of mass demonstrations in favour of Spanish unity, Raul Romeva, foreign affairs chief for the separatist government in Barcelona, insisted that the door was open for talks if Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy was willing to grasp the opportunity. “We need two to tango, we need the other side to be at the table,” Romeva said in an interview in Barcelona on Sunday. “We’re always going to be at the negotiation table, but to start negotiations we need the other party to negotiate with.”  The hint of an olive branch came as both sides hurtle toward crunch time in a dispute that threatens the breakup of Spain. Catalan President Carles Puigdemont has vowed to press ahead with his independence drive and is due to address the regional parliament on Tuesday, while Rajoy pledged that “national unity will be maintained” by using all instruments available to him. The leaders of the Catalan National Assembly, a civic group that led a series of massive pro-independence demonstrations and works closely with the Puigdemont, vowed that tomorrow’s session will see the president declare independence in a video posted on Twitter Sunday. Separatist lawmaker Marta Pascal told the BBC that there will be a symbolic recognition of the result of the illegal referendum held on October 1, but no unilateral declaration of a new state. “The risk of this getting a lot worse, with correspondingly bad market development for Spanish assets, is still too great for my risk appetite,” said Erik Nielsen, chief economist at UniCredit. He predicted at least another week of pressure on Spanish and Catalan debt and assets before “things will eventually normalise.” Economic fallout Spanish 10-year bonds rose, with the spread over German bunds narrowing by 6 basis points at 9:21 am in Madrid to 119 basis points. Spain’s benchmark stock index has lost about 1% since Catalans voted in defiance of the Constitutional Court, while Catalan companies including lender CaixaBank are moving their headquarters out of the region. Romeva invoked the crisis in the euro area that sent yields soaring on Spanish government debt and curbed access to finance, warning that the economic fallout of any worsening of the situation won’t be limited to Catalonia.  “This simply won’t affect the Catalan economy, it’s going to affect the Spanish economy, it’s going to affect the European economy,” Romeva said. He blamed Madrid for causing the political uncertainty that’s prompted a stampede for the exit. “What causes uncertainty is the incapability of the political central state — or the Spanish state — to provide a political solution,” he said. Viva Espana Pressure is mounting for a resolution to the constitutional crisis rooted in grievances the Catalans trace back centuries. After Spanish police earned international criticism for beating Catalans trying to vote on October 1, this Sunday saw demonstrations in the Catalan capital involving some 350 000 people protesting against independence and in favor of a united Spain. People streamed down Barcelona’s famous Ramblas boulevard in the sun, the majority waving Spanish flags, wrapped in them, or dressed in the national colors of yellow and red. There were young and old, men and women, some shouting “Viva Espana!” and “I am Catalan and Spanish.” Pressure isn’t just coming from the streets. A delegation from Cercle d’Economia, a business forum, met with Puigdemont on Saturday to demand he withdraw his threat to declare a Catalan republic. “We asked him to directly remove the shadow of a declaration by saying that it won’t happen,” Jordi Alberich, the group’s director general who was at the meeting, said by phone. “The situation is the most tremendous mess. Despite everything I believe that some solution will be found through sensible political negotiation.” The Cercle’s board includes CaixaBank chairman Jordi Gual and Jaime Guardiola, chief executive officer of Banco Sabadell. Both banks have said they’ll move their legal headquarters outside Catalonia to protect their customers and shareholders. The regional government says about 90% of the 2.3 million people who cast a vote in the referendum did so in favour of independence. Rajoy’s central government denies that anything resembling a referendum with democratic guarantees took place, because it lacked certified voter lists and wasn’t overseen by an official election board. Rajoy must decide whether to preemptively reassert control, as some of his main allies are urging him to do. The prime minister told El Pais that Spain will exist for a long time and portrayed his bid to stop the separatists as “Europe’s battle.” “This is a battle in which European values are at stake,” he said, citing the support he’s received from fellow European Union governments. Romeva said that it’s against Spanish and European interests to deny the Catalans access to the EU.  “Is it in the interest of the Spanish state, is it in the interest of EU member states, in the interest of EU citizens that Catalonia — 7.5 million EU citizens, which mean around 2% of the European GDP, 6 000 EU companies — would be simply in the limbo?” he said. “I think no one is interested in this.” © 2017 Bloomberg