The rand recovered on Friday after two days of heavy losses sparked by a bleak budget, benefiting from an uptick in other emerging market currencies and helped by local exporters selling dollars. At 1520 GMT the rand was 0.7% stronger at 14.14 per dollar, paring this week’s losses to around 3.4% after falling on each of the past four days. South African assets have been pummelled this week by speculation that the country faces further credit rating downgrades as a result of the dismal state of its public finances. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba shocked markets on Wednesday by flagging sharply weaker growth expectations, wider deficits and rising government debt in a closely watched budget speech. A currency trader at Rand Merchant Bank (RMB) said the rand was helped on Friday by large South African firms selling dollars as they closed their books for the month. A report that President Donald Trump is leaning toward Jerome Powell as his pick to head the U.S. central bank also tamed dollar strength on global markets and gave a boost to emerging market currencies. “Still, the rand is in the middle of nowhere,” the RMB currency trader said. “It’s far from certain where the currency will trade next week.” S&P Global and Moody’s are scheduled to review South Africa’s credit ratings next month, and all eyes are on whether they lower the country’s local-currency rating. A one-notch downgrade by both agencies would lead to ejection of South Africa’s rand-denominated bonds from widely tracked global indices, heaping more pressure on the currency. The yield on South Africa’s benchmark government bond due in 2026 edged up 1 basis point to 9.145% on Friday, reflecting slightly lower bond prices. Stock indexes posted modest gains, with Buildmax jumping sharply after it hinted at a return of half-year earnings growth from a loss. Shares in the firm jumped 36.36% to R3. The Johannesburg All Share Index closed 0.24% higher at 58 714 points, while the blue-chip Top 40 Index inched up 0.25% to 52 403 points. The expression of interest from LafargeHolcim to South Africa’s cement producer PPC on a possible combination of some of its African assets, raised market hopes of a bidding war, sending PPC shares 2.41% higher to R6.80. 