The prospect of your business property or home being torched to rubble during a violent protest or terrorist attack may seem far-fetched. While SA has not experienced incessant terror attacks, the reality is that violent protests are increasingly sweeping across the country. And this reality may bring costly damages to a property for individuals and businesses. Sasria – a state-owned enterprise that was formed in 1979 to protect assets against defined events, being primarily politically-motivated acts of terrorism and political riots – is willing to take on the costs. Sasria is the only insurer in SA that covers damages incurred from special risks such as civil unrest, protests, labour actions or acts of terrorism. About 70% of its customers are businesses and the remaining 30% are individuals. It’s no secret that there’s still a general feeling among consumers and business owners that insurance is a “grudge purchase” due to the perceived high premiums that many people have to shell out.                           Despite this general view, Letlhogonolo Tau, the customer relations manager at Sasria, believes that insurance covering special risks is important for property owners. Tau said insurance for special risks is no longer a luxury but a necessity because unforeseen circumstances are now part of daily life. “Having insurance is a way to protect your assets. In most cases, home and business owners purchase properties that are bank financed. If the property is burnt during a strike and you don’t have insurance cover on the property, then banks expect you to pay for damages and the remaining loan.” Depending on the appropriate insurance cover, Tau said Sasria will fully replace the property damaged and may provide payouts for the interruption of business operations while repairs are made. These payouts include employee salaries, rates and taxes, and others. Sasria cover is bolted on to existing policies offered by other commercial insurance companies. Essentially, it’s an optional add-on insurance cover.  Sasria has standard insurance that could cover damages up to a value of R500 million, depending on the cover taken. This cover is ideal for homeowners and small businesses. Large businesses can get cover of up to R1 billion. But this depends again on the cover you took based on your property value, and the sum insured (meaning the maximum amount an insurer could pay when your property is badly damaged). Sasria rates are affordable and individuals are typically charged a monthly minimum premium of R3 or R30 annually for their home (dependent on the value of property). The minimum premium for business owners would be R5 per month or R50 annually. One of the biggest problems facing SA’s insurance industry is convincing consumers that they need insurance. Industry figures show that insurance penetration in SA is 5% for individuals versus 80% in Europe. “A lot of people are not buying insurance, which means more than 40% of properties don’t have insurance and Sasria cover,” said Tau. “Most small businesses don’t have Sasria insurance as they see it as an additional cost. When there are strikes, they could lose their entire properties and business if they don’t have insurance.” He said the best approach for selecting cover that suits you is to speak to your insurer or broker. This article is brought to you by Sasria. Sasria is an authorised financial services provider (FSP-number: 39117).