The emerging-market currencies that posted the top carry-trade returns this year aren’t necessarily the best bets for the final two months of 2017. That’s because the rally that boosted the euro — and took Eastern European counterparts such as the Czech koruna and Poland’s zloty along for the ride — is forecast to fizzle out. For the rest of the year, investors who borrow in dollars and invest in developing nations may want to focus on countries where steep interest rates will drive returns, such as Brazil, Mexico and Indonesia, even if their currencies are unlikely to appreciate significantly.  The trade idea — championed by strategists including Marcin Lipka, a senior analyst at Cinkciarz Pl in Poland — is based on the idea that political concerns in the euro area, such as Catalonia’s separatist move and the upcoming general election in Italy, will likely mute gains in the common currency against the dollar. If that’s the case, the thinking goes, investors would do much better to focus on countries where benchmark interest rates can be as much as five times higher as what’s found in Eastern Europe. “The euro may enter into a longer correction period on some more political concerns,” said Lipka, who is one of the most accurate forecasters for the Turkish lira and the Romanian leu, according to Bloomberg rankings. He says it’s likely Eastern European currencies will post a negative carry return in 2018 as the dollar gains strength. The euro will end 2017 little changed from now, at $1.18, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. For 2018, they predict a 3.4% gain, much smaller than the 10% advance seen so far in 2017. Buying the zloty or the koruna with borrowed dollars has returned more than 16% in 2017, the most among 42 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Still, benchmark interest rates in those countries are no more than 1.5%, compared with 8.25% in Brazil and 7% in Mexico.  Guillaume Tresca, a senior emerging-markets strategist at Credit Agricole in Paris, says the momentum for developing nations should remain positive and recommends buying high-yielding currencies like the Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Russian ruble, Indonesian rupiah and Indian rupee for carry and spot gains over the next six months. He says it’s best to avoid South Africa’s rand and Turkey’s lira. “I would turn increasingly more selective,” he said. © 2017 Bloomberg