Medical schemes are in the process of announcing their annual contribution increases for 2018 as well as changes to the different benefit options. Along with this comes the once-a-year opportunity for scheme members to change their benefit plan. The increases are largely in line with medical inflation, which is generally 2% to 4% higher than CPI. “We have seen that the average Consumer Price Index (CPI) has been at an unwavering rate of 5.93% over the last 12 months. The Council for Medical Schemes uses the CPI as a benchmark for premium increases, therefore medical schemes trustees are obliged to justify increases exceeding CPI plus 3%,” says Pieter van Zyl, acting CEO of Bestmed. The average contribution increases for the bigger schemes are for instance 7.90% for Discovery Health Medical Scheme (DHMS); 8.70% for Bonitas; 9.50% for Fedhealth; and 8.40% for Bestmed. According to Deon Heydenrych of Stapleford Insurance Brokers, the average increases are actually remarkably low given the challenges the medical scheme industry faces. “Costs do not shrink and the schemes are aging every year, with annual claims on the rise. So seeing percentage increases quite far below 10% is amazing, but great for the fund member,” he says. Average contribution increases for 2018:   Karin Andrea, chief executive: Group Solutions at ‎Optivest Health Services, says schemes seem to be managing their expenses well, the result being relatively low increases and very little, if any, changes to benefits. “Benefits in general are not reduced. If you look at the more traditional options, the limits for instance on out-of-hospital benefits have not been changed, but adjusted with the same percentage as the CPI increase. The changes we do see are to the Screening and Preventative care benefits, which are not part of the day-to-day expenses but paid from risk. These include benefits like mammograms, pap smears, flu and childhood vaccines. Most schemes have increased these benefits to differentiate themselves from other schemes,” she says. Review your benefit plan According to ‎Andrea, it’s often that members are still on the same option they joined on years ago. “Usually there is a more cost-efficient plan within their scheme, with a slight or no reduction in benefits. Members should really make use of this opportunity to review their benefits,” she says.   Most schemes have network options, where members are required to use specific hospitals, but still enjoy the same benefits as a similar non-network plan, albeit at a much lower monthly premium. A case in point is Medihelp’s Dimension Prime and Dimension Prime Network plans; or Momentum’s Custom Any Hospital and Custom Associated Hospitals plans. Andrea says the options from the same schemes offer exactly the same benefits for hospitalisation, MRI/CT scans and oncology treatment as well as for the 26 prescribed minimum benefit chronic conditions. The network options just require that members make use of a specific list of private hospitals for planned procedures. For a family of four the monthly difference in premium is more than R900. Network benefit plans with lower premiums compared to similar non-network plans: Medical scheme Member, Spouse and 2 children Difference in monthly premium pm Medihelp Dimension Prime Dimension Prime Network R4 194 R3 276 R918 Momentum Custom Any Hospital Custom Associated Hospitals R4 336 R3 367 R969 Source: Optivest Health Services Making the right choice Choosing a medical aid plan is both a financial and healthcare decision and requires careful consideration. The following should be considered: “These arrangements can be very beneficial because when members use healthcare professionals whom the scheme has an arrangement with, their approved consultations and procedures should be covered in full,” says Deon Kotzé, head of Research & Product Development at Discovery Health. If you want to join a different scheme, keep in mind that certain waiting periods will apply. “Young, healthy people and people with no or few financial dependents typically could need less cover. If you’re older, in poor health or have a large family, you may need more comprehensive cover than that offered on a hospital option only,” says Kotzé. Where an advisor fits in The different medical scheme plans can be quite complex. While being informed of your choices and understanding your actual benefits is a great result for comparing options yourself, it might be a good idea to ask a medical broker for advice. Brokers are required to do a full needs analysis and then to explain the most suitable options to you. Most members are not aware that broker fees are incorporated into their premiums anyway, whether they use an intermediary or not. This means that you can use a medical aid broker, one of your own choosing, without paying anything extra. Heydenrych says only when a member instructs the scheme to pay the premium to a certain broker, does the broker receive the fee. If the member doesn’t use a broker, the fee is still part of the premium, but the scheme retains it. Deadline for up- or downgrades The final date for benefit changes is December 15, though most schemes ask members to up- or downgrade by November 30 to ensure they do it early enough.