Parliaments’ Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) wants the board of the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) to carry out a thorough inquiry into who was behind the allegations leveled against CEO Dan Matjila that resulted in endless media speculation and prompted the intervention of Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba. Matjila was forced to defend himself at two lengthy meetings of the board last month against claims levelled by an unnamed source at the PIC. In what would later be a highly disputed interview with the Sunday Times, Matjila said he was the subject of a smear campaign that was designed to get him dismissed in order to make way for a replacement that would allow nefarious parties to control the purse strings of the PIC. This request follow representations made to the SCF by trade unions, the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF), and the (PIC) on Tuesday regarding the management of public sector workers’ retirement funds. The SCF would also like to see the risk of political interference being reduced with respect to the management of funds by the PIC. The Committee noted that all of the trade unions are opposed to “a” Deputy Minister of Finance chairing the PIC Board.  The Committee would like the Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance to engage with the trade unions on this proposal.  The SCF also requested that Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, once he has presented the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement to parliament, engages with public sector unions and relevant pension organisations to address their concerns and proposals.  All parties represented on the SCF also agreed that there should be appropriate representation of the trade unions of the GEPF members, on the PIC board. If it means amendments must be made to the Public Investment Corporation Act of 2004 to allow this, it will be taken up in due course. Further, the parties were agreed that while the PIC does have a developmental agenda to fulfill to reduce inequality and serve the needs of the poor, this precludes investing in ailing State-owned entities (Soe’s) that are “badly governed, mismanage their resources, serve the narrow interests of an elite, do not advance the country’s developmental needs and will not provide an adequate return on investment for the members of the GEPF.” The Committee expressed confidence in the work of the PIC as evidenced through the above-inflation returns it has secured for its members and its unqualified audits over many years. But it wondered aloud why the Minister had requested a forensic audit of the PIC’s investment decisions. “If he insists that he wants such an investigation, he will need to show that it is in the interests of the members of the GEPF and public” read the statement.  The next briefing is scheduled to take place before the end of November and the SCF will engage directly with National Treasury, and specifically, Deputy Finance Minister Sifiso Buthelezi, who serves as the Chairman of the PIC.