As the receivers of an endless barrage of negative financial news and economic data, many South African investors are understandably rethinking their portfolios and questioning financial plans. Many are looking more carefully at offshore investment tools and platforms, and doubting the ‘safety’ of local assets and investments. Amid this atmosphere of uncertainty, however, there is a very clear and consistent message emerging from financial planning professionals: stay calm, and stick to your plan. That is, if you have a solid plan in place to begin with… Mark MacSymon, a certified financial planner® at Private Client Holdings, and a top three finalist in this year’s FPI Financial Planner of the Year Awards, emphasizes that if investors have a sound financial plan in place underpinned by smart fundamentals, one can learn to ignore the noise. “The hard work is effectively done upfront and I would go so far as to argue that when we experience another dotcom bubble, or an emerging market crisis, or another banking crisis, that my clients will remain committed to their longer-term investment strategies – knowing confidently that their financial plan is tolerant of even severe market corrections over the long-run,” MacSymon explains. “Relevant and regular communications are additionally important to distill a very noisy financial landscape.” Another key aspect to instilling investor confidence, adds MacSymon, is to be very clear about market patterns and to educate clients around the very nature of financial markets and their instruments. “It is important that when investment decisions are made with clients, that they become acutely mindful of the inevitability of market volatility and that in the pursuit of real returns, price variability is commonplace,” he says. “That is a given – markets do not appreciate in a straight line. The second aspect is of course for the financial planner to design an investment strategy within a financial plan that maximises the likelihood of achieving a specific investment goal, with the least amount of risk (broadly measured by price volatility).” According to MacSymon, this approach helps to ‘anchor’ a client’s emotions to the financial plan, and not to the noise and uncontrollable factors that ‘merely serve to provide uncertainty’. “So by clearly articulating and illustrating the volatility that an investment portfolio could exhibit and by ensuring that clients’ forward looking expectations are anchored to the achievement of a goal-oriented future outcome within a financial plan, clients are better prepared to remain calm over full market cycles… especially during times like these,” he adds. Empathy, lifelong learning That said, for the financial planners themselves, there is undoubtedly an element of stress tied to the job, with many of the more successful CFP® professionals willingly taking on part of the financial burden of their clients. For MacSymon, who completed an Honours Degree in Financial Economics and a Master’s Degree in Economics at the University of Stellenbosch, it was the very personal nature of the work that led him to choose a career in financial planning over a potential role as an investment analyst. During his studies, he produced two dissertations: one on The Economics of Happiness and the other on Optimal Asset Allocation. The first thesis explored the relationship between income and happiness, and the second was more of a technical volume. This project sought to define optimal risk-adjusted target return portfolios using statistical techniques. “In short, those studies became building blocks in my understanding of personal finance and combined, they naturally steered me in the direction of pursuing a career in the financial planning profession,” says MacSymon. “To be a good financial planner it is important to care. It may sound simple but in truth, the best financial planners are typically people who care deeply about the wellbeing of their clients. So much so that there are some businesses that will only employ financial planners who exhibit caring attributes.” For those aspiring to join the financial planning profession, he advises that “becoming a Certified Financial Planner® professional is a mandatory step and it is important to be mindful of the inevitability of being a lifelong learner. If you principally follow an advice-driven process you will never have to worry about sales, ever. Keep the client at the centre of all your decisions, care intensely about client outcomes and you will never look back”. MacSymon also acknowledges the pivotal role of professional associations and memberships, chiefly the Financial Planning Institute (FPI). “The FPI has certainly established itself as the preeminent standard setting body of the financial planning profession in South Africa and in this respect it has performed an invaluable role in its commitment to advocating a more inclusive financial planning profession, as well as persistently uplifting best practice standards,” he says. “It has further worked tirelessly to ensure that government, media and consumers recognise the value of quality financial planning, delivered by qualified CFP® professionals.”  Brought to you by the Financial Planning Institute of Southern Africa (FPI).