Sharemax rescue vehicle Nova Property Group aggressively wrote down the valuations of the half-built Villa Retail Park and the Zambezi Mall by more than R1.36 billion and appointed five new directors to its board to ensure compliance with the Companies Act. Nova also disclosed – for the first time since the company’s inception – the dominant shareholding of the four directors. They received these shares for free and fought Moneyweb for three years up to the Constitutional Court to keep it a secret. Read:  Part 1: ‘Corporate capture’ of Sharemax rescue vehicle Read: Part 2: Shareholder structure hides how directors acquired 87.1% of Nova shares This was all revealed in the company’s 2017 annual financial statements, which were released earlier this week, together with the group’s circular that proposes the listing of Nova on the JSE. These significant developments follow an “extensive investigation” by its auditor BDO into a range of potential accounting irregularities at the company that was set up to rescue investments worth over R5 billion in the failed Sharemax scheme. The investigation by BDO was triggered late last year after Moneyweb flagged numerous accounting anomalies, including those rectified in the statements, ranging back to the original Section 311 Scheme of Arrangement. It also prompted the reporting of two Reportable Irregularities to regulatory body Irba. Neither BDO or Nova responded to questions or requests for comment on these developments. Revaluation of the Villa and Zambezi The most notable impact on the restated financial statements of the company is the R1.3 billion write-down of the half-built and derelict Villa Retail Park and the Zambezi Mall developments in Pretoria. Nova refers to this adjustment as follows in the statements:   “The assumptions made in prior periods with regard to investment properties The Villa Retail Park and Zambezi Retail Park, in applying IFRS 13 to determine fair value, were made in error and had more appropriate assumptions been made in the unique circumstances that existed, it would have been clear that fair value as previously disclosed was not appropriate. Due to the materiality of the above matter the financial statements have been restated.” The four Nova directors: Dirk Koekemoer, Rudi Badenhorst, Connie Myburgh and Dominique Haese. In 2016, Nova published valuations of R1.668 billion for the Villa and R620 million for Zambezi developments and stated that these were valuations of an independent valuer. Moneyweb later established that these valuations were not the signed valuations of the independent valuer. The new values of R616 million and R307.5 million, are values derived from the independent valuation report. The revaluation also followed after Ratings Afrika CEO and chartered accountant Charl Kocks lodged a complaint at Irba. These adjustments saw the reversal of accumulated profits amounting by R945 million, which flowed from the historic overvaluation. This may also have played a significant role in the writeback of R11 million of accrued bonuses of the four directors – Connie Myburgh, Dominique Haese, Rudi Badenhorst and Dirk Koekemoer (see below). Although these adjustments did not have an impact on cash flow for the operational performance of the company, it casts question marks over the management of the group and the quality of BDO’s historic audits.  New directors Nova also appointed five new directors to its board. This was after Moneyweb cited a contravention of the Companies Act and BDO filed a Reportable Irregularity (IR) at Irba during its investigation and audit process of the 2017 statements. Matthew Osterloh, a long-standing senior manager at Nova, was appointed as a fifth executive director to join the other four directors. Osterloh is also one of Nova’s founding shareholders who received free shares in Nova, through the 2011 Scheme of Arrangement. Four other non-executive directors were also appointed. These directors are CNS Rembe, JG Smit, LM Mbethe and N Adriaanse. Rembe is the chairman of the audit committee and he signed the published Audit Committee report in the published financial statements. Operational performance Nova’s statements continue to show the dire financial state the company finds itself in. The group’s revenue – mostly rental income from tenants – declined from R98 million to R83 million. The operating profit of the previous year of R14 million slumped to an operating loss of R87 million. The cash flow statement also shows that operating activities burnt nearly R43 million cash and continues the trend that Nova has never reported a positive operational cash flow since its inception in 2012. For the whole year, Nova saw a cash outflow of nearly R34 million and at the end of February 2017 had only had R8.7 million in its bank account. The board also disclosed that it is currently in the process of selling the Checkers Virginia property for R36.5 million. Interestingly, Myburgh reportedly told Rob Rose of Financial Mail this week that “People do not know what we do every single day — we work 20 hours a day, we don’t play golf.” Salaries Despite the poor operational performance, the four directors – who own 91% of the company’s voting rights – continued to pay themselves exorbitant salaries. They also paid themselves annual bonuses ranging from R27 000 to R82 000. The total cash remuneration and bonuses paid to the directors amounted to R15 million, which represents 17% of the cash the company received from the tenants of its various properties. The individual packages are listed in the table below and show that they earn between R280 000 and R336 000 per month. These salaries and bonuses were paid despite the board’s decision to suspend interest payments to debenture holders in December last year. Haese said at the time this was necessary as the group could not secure external funding to upgrade and maintain underlying properties. 2017 Basic salary Bonus Accrued bonus Total D Haese R4 036 036 R82 750 -R3 021 476 R1 097 310 R Badenhorst R3 365 343 R27 292 -R2 716 608 R676 027 D Koekemoer R3 362 266 R27 292 – R2 596 233 R793 325 C Mybugh R4 038 042 R82 750 – R3 195 000 R925 792  R14 801 687   R220 084  R11 529 317 R3 492 454 Basic salary per month Salary per day Increase from 2016 D Haese R336 336 R11 058 8% R Badenhorst R280 445 R9 220 8% D Koekemoer R280 189 R9 212 8% C Mybugh R336 504 R11 063 8% R1 233 474 R40 553 Read: Staggering salaries of Sharemax rescue vehicle directors. Silverwater and Magalieskruin Nova announced in April that it would repay the debentures on Silverwater Crossing and Magalieskruin. These repayments were scheduled for September 30, but Nova failed to fulfil its commitment, apparently due to an incomplete FICA process of the debenture holders. It has now become apparent that these payouts will only occur during the proposed listing when cash from a new investor would be used to settle the debentures. Nova and BDO non-response Moneyweb sent a set of questions to Haese and Myburgh on Wednesday in an effort to obtain some clarity on various aspects of the appointment of the directors, financial statements and the proposed listing. Neither director responded to the email. Moneyweb also approached BDO for confirmation that its official investigation was completed. BDO, which was initially willing to engage Moneyweb, had not responded by the time of publication. Nova suspended all communication with Moneyweb late last year claiming that Moneyweb was waging a vendetta against Nova and the directors. This was after Moneyweb revealed that the four directors of the company collectively received 87% of the issued share capital for free after Nova fought for more than three years in various courts to keep it a secret. In the last communication from Nova with Moneyweb, Haese stated: Dear Mr van Niekerk, It is regrettable that our efforts in engaging Moneyweb openly, constructively and in a bona vide fashion has (sic) not been reciprocated. In response Moneyweb has chosen to publish articles without prior reference to us, and in breach of your undertaking to allow us to see and comment on the articles first, which articles twist the facts, articulate a number of inaccuracies and untruths and seek to slander and defame the Nova Group and its directorate. We are considering our position and our rights in this regard are reserved. It has become clear to us that any information that is provided by us to Moneyweb, will be twisted and used out of context for the purpose of further negative reporting of and concerning the Nova Group and its directorate and given that no further productive purpose would be served in engaging with Moneyweb, the Nova Group has decided to break off all forms of communication with Moneyweb. We will accordingly no longer respond to questions Moneyweb pose to us, requests for commentary on proposed articles or for that matter to any articles that Moneyweb might publish, subject of course to a reservation of the right to deal with any matter Moneyweb might publish, in a court of law. Please ensure, should you elect to publish anything further regarding the Nova Group and any of its functionaries, that you include in such publication our above position, verbatim. Yours faithfully, Dominique Haese CEO Nova Property Group