Central banks are the gatekeepers of a country’s fiscal health and their role of setting monetary policy is crucial for the stability of their economy. A central bank manages the supply and demand of money, manages credit, oversees the creation and expansion of financial institutions and sets interest rates. These functions help to promote economic growth, maintain stability, and help to overcome the balance of payments disequilibrium. Achieving this mandate is a balancing act that needs careful consideration and a solid grasp of the fundamentals that make up a successful economy. Sometimes, however, fiscal prudence does not suit the agenda of the government in power, and the individuals tasked with ensuring that decisions remain free from political influence and voting agendas, get embroiled in political manoeuvres that don’t always result in a favourable outcome. In a democracy, checks and balances hold firm and an errant leader will rarely get away with an attempt to scupper sensible economic policy in order to secure votes or drive a personal agenda. However, in some third-world countries, fiscal policy is often hijacked by leaders with short-term thinking. There are many instances of economies being damaged by meddling leaders who have political aspirations that are not being met by the economic status quo. Come election time, an incumbent may put pressure on their central bank to reduce interest rates, because this may help to boost disposable income, increase economic growth and reduce unemployment – all scenarios that will help re-election. However, these gains will be short term because the indiscriminate act of loosening monetary policy can cause the economy to grow faster and drive up inflation, sometimes to the point where it spirals out of control.  In July this year, South Africa’s ruling party, the ANC, proposed that the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) be nationalised. It is no surprise that the rand fell by about 1.5% to R13.45 against the dollar when the news broke. This is a new and unfamiliar narrative for South Africa and it comes on the heels of a party at risk of losing their control of government in 2019, when the elections for a new ruling party take place. Since its establishment in 1921, the Reserve Bank has always had private shareholders who have little say over policy. They vote to appoint seven of the central bank’s 10 non-executive directors. The board also includes the governor and three deputy governors as executive directors, who are responsible for the governance of the central bank. While finance minister Malusi Gigaba is saying all the right things regarding the independence of the Reserve Bank post-nationalisation, there may be a more sinister undertone.  The nationalisation will give government more influence over monetary policy. While it is not unusual for a central bank to be run by the government, it is vital that the independence of its operations and policy remain sacrosanct. The nosedive in the rand underscored fears that the ruling party might redirect monetary policy and Treasury cash flows for their own benefit. While this is a real concern, some economists are saying that the recent bailout given to South African Airways, was more damaging to the rand because it fuels concerns of rating agencies. Despite the negative reception that the proposal has received, it will be taken to the ANC branches for further discussion and again tabled before the national conference in December.  Third-world governments do not in general have a good track record when it comes to monetary policy and the ones that have kept their central banks independent, tend to fare better. In addition to making more measured economic decisions, a country with an independent central bank often has more credibility, which in turn garners more confidence from the international community. This in and of itself helps to maintain the favour of the ratings agencies, investors and its citizens.  What lies ahead for South Africa is anyone’s guess. One can hope that the intentions behind nationalisation are noble. However, the whispers point to a scenario where the money supply will be loosened to such an extent that the country may face a significant rise in inflation, putting its already financially-strained citizens in the firing line of an increase in their cost of living. The ratings agencies are watching every move South Africa makes and they have issued a stern warning: clean up your act or face more downgrades. South Africa’s saving grace is its rich commodity-based economy, however it should not be holding this up as a last resort, but make it the jewel in the crown of a successful African country. Jameel Ahmad is FXTM’s global head of Currency Strategy and Market Research.