By 2030 the world’s population will number 8.5 billion people and 75% of those will live in cities. As urbanisation continues apace, not all cities will be winners. For global property investors the ability to identify the cities that are growing faster than others provides an edge when it comes to picking the landlords with the greatest chance of success. According to the third annual Schroders Global Cities Index, the most attractive cities to invest in are Los Angeles, followed by London, Boston, Chicago and New York. Schroders Global Cities Index Schroders Global Cities Index It goes without saying that one common – and key ingredient – is above average GDP growth. “Without economic growth cities will not generate the opportunities, attract the best people and landlords will not be able to charge their tenants a higher rent, whether they are an office company, or a shop, or an industrial unit,” says Tom Walker, co-head of Schroders Global Real Estate Securities. “So that’s the key thing that we look for – effectively we’re all GDP junkies in the real estate world.” He adds that there are certain cities around the world that are detaching – from a GDP perspective – away from the countries and regions they are in. This is by virtue of their above average employment growth, good universities, diversified economies, talented workforces and good quality infrastructure. “In the UK, for instance, the GDP growth generated out of London is higher than that of the UK as a whole.” A city that is strong and compelling is Los Angeles, moving from 6th position to 1st position this year. “A key strength is that LA does not rely on one industry: it’s diversified across financial services, media, trade and technology.” The technology sector has grown substantially over the last few years, boosting demand for office and residential property. “It is a myth that LA is one large urban sprawl. The city is bound by the ocean on one side and national parks on two others. And height restrictions limit the densification of the city – putting space at a premium and giving landlords pricing power,” Walker says. An LA-based real estate company that has attracted Schroders’ attention is Douglas Emmett. It is a New York Stock Exchange-listed company that owns and operates about 18.3 million square feet of Class A office space and 3 320 apartment units within the premier coastal submarkets of Los Angeles and Honolulu. Real estate investment trusts (Reits) that invest in less attractive cities [according to the index] are less desirable to Schroders. A company like British Reit Intu Properties is invested in cities like Bristol, Birmingham and Newcastle. “If there is a disaster; if rates go up, there is not enough underlying activity in those cities to sustain rental prices. The companies we invest in must derive 65% of their rental from these ‘global cities’.”  Another mover and shaker is Boston, which benefits, in particular, from the proximity of Harvard, Cambridge and MIT. “As a result of its universities Boston has become a centre for biotech research, which in turn attracts the biggest pharmaceutical companies who then invest in the city,” he says. Chinese cities no longer dominate the index, seeing some of the biggest falls this year. Shanghai was the only city to have made the top 10 and Beijing, which was previously the number one city, fell to 11th place. However do not discount them, says Walker – many Chinese cities are still in the top 30 index. While Cape Town and Johannesburg both feature on the index, they are well down the list. Johannesburg lies 212th out of 712 cities, while Cape Town is a sorry 414th. While real estate investors need to be positioned in the strongest global cities, Walker adds that investors need to be alert to trends that drive growth in very specific sub-sectors in those cities. “One area that we have particular interest in is data centres. Demand for, and the creation of, data is a trend that is growing very strongly. In fact, every two to three years, the amount of data that is produced through new technology is doubling,” he says. This data needs to be housed and transferred through data centres, and these data centres need to be located in and around some of the world’s strongest cities. “We’re seeing very strong demand from two industries in particular: the gaming industry and high frequency traders. A reduction in latency and the need to be on super-fibre highways is driving this demand.” The Schroders Fund is currently available on the Glacier International and Momentum International platforms as well as through the Absa Global Property Feeder Fund.