Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today. Tax plan Yesterday’s successful adoption of budget resolution by the House means the path to passing a tax-reform bill remains open, if still difficult. One of the main difficulties for lawmakers continues to be finding out what is actually in the plan before its release on Nov. 1. This has done nothing to dampen the ambitious schedule to get that plan into law, with Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn saying the bill would have to be out of the Senate by Thanksgiving. US stocks rallied yesterday on renewed hopes for successful tax reform.  Next target Amazon.com shares rose as much as 8.5%, topping $1 000, in extended trading yesterday after announcing results that beat analyst estimates. While this made for a good day for company founder Jeff Bezos who added $6.6 billion to his personal fortune, it wasn’t a cause for celebration everywhere. The prospect of the retail giant entering the healthcare industry following a report that it had received pharmacy-wholesale licences in a dozen states triggered a steep selloff among suppliers. Established players in the sector seem to be looking at defensive moves, with CVS Health Corporation reportedly in talks to buy insurer Aetna.  GDP Economists are estimating that hurricane damage to third-quarter US GDP may be less than originally expected, with the median estimate for a 2.6% annualised expansion in the period. The data is due to be released by the Commerce Department at 8:30 am eastern time. Should the growth rate come in close to expectations, it would give the US the strongest back-to-back prints since 2015, following the second-quarter’s 3.1% annualised growth.  Markets rise Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.3%, while Japan’s Topix index added 1.0% as the yen weakened against the dollar. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.5% higher at 5:55 am as positive earnings added to yesterday’s ECB-policy boost.  S&P 500 futures were 0.3% higher, the 10-year Treasury yield was at 2.452% and gold was lower.  Big oil  Yesterday was tech, today it’s big oil’s turn to dominate earnings. Already, Total SA posted the highest earnings from pumping oil and gas in more than two years. The largest US oil majors Exxon Mobil Corporation and Chevron Corporation are due to announce results pre-market. In trading, a barrel of West Texas Intermediate for December delivery was at $52.56 by 5:55 am © 2017 Bloomberg