Brand South Africa is re-doubling its efforts to favourably manage the country’s reputation, or nation brand, that will allow South Africa to extend its influence in global affairs and strategically position itself to enter new markets. “We, as Brand South Africa, are custodians of our nation brand, and that means we are responsible for enhancing the good reputation of our country with both external and internal stakeholders,” says the CEO of Brand South Africa, Dr Kingsley Makhubela. The agency, which is fully funded by the national government, recently convened a forum titled “Inspiring innovation and business excellence in the era of emerging markets” to seek input and establish consensus from a wide range of stakeholders on the best way to project the country. Makhubela believes the degree to which local businesses innovate will be a major factor in how successfully South Africa can access new markets. “Innovation is vital to our success in the future. We are only spending 1.5% of our GDP on research and development, so that needs to rise. It is clear that the way we will access these markets is by taking innovative products and services to them, of which we have much to offer.” Identifying the way in which to take advantage of emerging trends is but one part of managing the nation brand. The process begins in first understanding how the country is perceived by the rest of the world. Brand South Africa collates and analyses a variety of information and reports compiled by credible institutions that include the likes of the International Monetary Fund, World Bank and International Labour Organisation and locally, by the likes of Statistics South Africa. “We study what those who formulate opinions on us say and we provide the feedback to a whole range of decision-makers,” says Makhubela. Once perceptions have been internally digested, Brand South Africa seeks to collaboratively engage partners on how to present the challenges and opportunities that exist and craft a consistent message the country takes to the world. “This process gives us a much better idea of how to promote ourselves. We pull these ideas and resources together so that when we present ourselves on the international stage, like at the World Economic Forum in Davos, we are consistent and unified in our approach, and this lends credibility to the message we portray about the country,” says Makhubela. Openly and honestly addressing concerns is fundamental to managing the nation brand. Makhubela cites the example of the protests surrounding #FeesMustFall that raised concerns with the international community. “We tell them that mass protests are a good sign and a regular feature of our democracy, but it is not acceptable when they become violent. But we always focus more on the positive, because our reputation and brand must be defined by the opportunities we have and not by the challenges.” Brand South Africa reinforces the country’s strengths at every chance. “We, as South Africans, sometimes forget the positives the country has going for it. We have an independent judiciary and vibrant media. We are a country based on the rule of law. We have an innovative and sophisticated economy that in many respects compares favourably with the best in the world. These are strengths and assets that we must continually remind people of, including ourselves,” says Makhubela.  The agency’s focus is also not purely oriented towards international dialogue, it regards internal communication just as important. It recently partnered with the Department of Basic Education to promote the Read to Lead campaign, which encourages young people to read. Other initiatives have involved partnering with non-governmental organisations like the Nelson Mandela Foundation, Tutu Foundation, and the Gift of the Givers. Brand South Africa is currently working with the Office of the deputy president on the bid to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup. The brief, however, extends past communication and marketing into the realm of strategic positioning. This includes entering or strengthening new diplomatic and trade relations in areas of the world that have previously been underserved. Hence the forum to engage over the opportunities that exist as emerging markets globalise. “The traditional markets are still our bread and butter,” says Makhubela. “But we do want to open up new markets. Being included in BRICS has definitely helped. It has given the country a chance to enter those markets before many others have even knocked on the door. We convened the forum to present the opportunities that exist for South African companies to enter and operate in these markets, and to agree on the best way to project ourselves to them.” There is a broader strategic role the agency is cognisant of in managing the nation brand. “Our track record in promoting human rights and racial tolerance has generated the country enormous goodwill around the world, and this has allowed us to establish relationships and exert influence in a whole range of international forums,” says Makhubela. He cites South Africa’s involvement in several peacekeeping efforts on the continent as a concrete example of the country’s commitment to the values embodied in our Constitution. “We must never forget the greater purpose – that we exist as a nation to serve and improve humanity.”   Brought to you by Brand South Africa.