Earlier this month Choice Lifestyle Change director Maarten Stapelberg sent out a message to all the company’s members, updating them on ‘recent challenges’ to the business. These range from the article in Moneyweb published in September that raised concerns about the business model to an investigation by the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb). Choice Lifestyle claims to be operating a bridging finance platform that connects investors with those who require financial guarantees. Members are being offered returns of up to 15% per month. Stapelberg noted that Moneyweb’s article had caused ‘panic’ among members, and was based on ‘incorrect information’. A copy of the article was however sent to Stapelberg prior to publication, and he chose not to respond to it. If it contained any incorrect information, he therefore had the opportunity to correct it, but did not do so. “My name was used to cause embarrassment and to put pressure on our management,” he wrote. “Since we are a Christian family, we are taught by the word of God to forgive so that we can be set free. The matter with regards to Moneyweb is thus herewith formally closed and it is my choice NOT to pursue them but to forgive them so that the TRUTH can set us free.” Sarb investigation He went on to acknowledge that the Sarb had appointed an inspector to look into Choice Lifestyle following a complaint from First National Bank. “The issue here was that all information that we had including hard copy and intellectual property had to be copied and sent to their forensic department in order to make a ruling if Choice Lifestyle Change present or presented themselves to be bankers and thus contravening the banking law applicable to financial institutions,” Stapelberg noted. “They were brought under the impression or suspected us of giving out loans to our members and charging you interest rates to be paid off on a monthly basis. This is not true as we act as facilitators between you, our member and bridging finance.” Stapelberg noted that their equipment was now being returned to them, and that the business was still operational. However, the South African Reserve Bank confirmed to Moneyweb that it “is still investigating whether Choice Lifestyle has contravened the Banks Act”. The business is therefore operating under a cloud. Shortly after Stapelberg sent the message to members, the Financial Services Board (FSB) also issued a warning about Choice Lifestyle. The head of Fais compliance at the regulator, Thabang Malimabe, told Moneyweb that: “The media release was prompted by the outcomes of our own investigation, after receiving general enquiries and complaints received through our anonymous tipoff system about Choice Lifestyle. We also got confirmation from the South African Reserve Bank that is also investigating the matter.” Finger pointing Stapelberg claimed that the investigation was sparked by a complaint from a former member who had been refused a loan. “The person who did this to us is well known,” he wrote. “Since I understand business ethics and tact, I will allow a timeframe because this was done with help from inside. The whole purpose was to break the confidence within the family, steal the business model and continue on their own and take all the profit for themselves.” Choice Lifestyle claims to be able to charge up to 30% per month for the financial guarantees it offers. It supposedly pays half of this interest to its members, while the other half supports its parent company Free Agape Enterprises, which runs Christian ministry and outreach work. “I have explained previously that this business belongs to God,” wrote Stapelberg. “Those who acted in defiance and caused the pain and hurt of the poorest of the poor of our members, those of our members who were paid late, others who needed their money for very specific reasons etc., were unduly placed in darkness by these heartless people. Our own! Remember, you stole from God and He will deal with you. Judgment day is a FACT and not a game.” A copy of this article was sent to Stapelberg for comment prior to publication. He did not respond.