North Korea tensions heat up, central bankers ask when inflation will finally surface, and Chinese corporations find their debt in the spotlight. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about. “Until the First Bomb Drops”  Well, those words sure aren’t encouraging. In an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union” program on Sunday, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said President Trump wants him to push forward on diplomacy with North Korea “until the first bomb drops.” While the comments weren’t meant to be taken literally, they come at a time when nations are on edge. South Korean military officials are readying for another possible missile launch by Pyongyang. Trump hasn’t taken to Twitter to discuss the comments yet, but has said plenty on the platform before regarding North Korea. Here’s a look at how the U.S. might defend against a nuclear attack.  Biggest Surprise of 2017? Inflation, or the lack of it, was the “the biggest surprise in the U.S. economy this year,” Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said at an event in Washington D.C. on Sunday. Her “best guess” is that consumer prices will soon accelerate after a period of surprising softness. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi and Bank of England Governor Mark Carney echoed this view. Excluding food and energy, so-called core prices rose 0.5% in September, below an estimate of 0.6%.  Corporate Debt in the Chinese Spotlight People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan has a warning for some Chinese companies: you’ve taken on too much debt. In a speech on Sunday in Washington D.C., the governor argued for less financial leverage as well as fiscal reforms. While debt servicing costs remain low, “we need to pay further effort to deleveraging and strengthen policy for financial stability,” he added, appearing alongside policy makers including Fed chair Yellen and Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda. He’s not the only one concerned. Earlier this week, the IMF may have upgraded China’s growth forecasts, but it came with a warning that the economic expansion comes at the cost of a further increase in debt which may mask risks. Economic Data Coming Up We’ll get a look at Chinese inflation at 10:30 a.m. Tokyo time, as well as Japanese industrial production and Indonesian imports and exports. Also due out are consumer prices from New Zealand, where expectations are for prices to have risen 1.8% in the third quarter since this time last year. Equities On a Tear U.S. stocks climbed to record highs and Treasuries rallied on Friday after the core inflation reading slowed, adding to evidence that economic growth continues apace without stoking price increases. Bonds in Europe gained on a report that the European Central Bank may continue asset purchases for at least nine months after it starts tapering in January, with the the Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbing as well. Stock-index futures market in Japan and Hong Kong pointed to a higher start on Monday morning.   © 2017 Bloomberg