With yields among the highest in emerging markets, South Africa’s bond market is already pricing in a lot of bad news. It could get worse if Wednesday’s mid-term budget statement fails to reassure investors about the government’s commitment to fiscal prudence. Finance minister Malusi Gigaba faces an estimated revenue shortfall of R40 billion ($2.9 billion) as he prepares to brief lawmakers amid a battle for control of the ruling party that’s stoked political uncertainty and deterred hiring and investment. He’ll have to consider cutting spending, raising taxes and selling state assets if he wants to avoid further ratings downgrades that could lead to large outflows from the bond market.   “We would look for how Minister Gigaba intends to project fiscal prudence beyond the current fiscal year,” Standard Bank Group strategists led by Walter de Wet wrote in a client note. “Any deviation from the intention, on paper at least, to compress the budget deficit would be punished by both the bond and currency market.”      Yields on the nation’s benchmark bonds due December 2026 have climbed 35 basis points since the beginning of September to 8.85%, a three-month high, while the rand weakened 3.8%. Three-month implied volatility for the South African currency against the dollar climbed to 17.6% this week, the highest since April, suggesting options traders expect wider price swings in coming months. While significant fiscal slippage would hit the bond market hardest, stocks could also be in the firing line. Banks, retailers and listed property shares will come under pressure if bond yields rise and the currency weakens, according to Old Mutual Investment Group. “Investors will be on the lookout for signs of fiscal slippage,” John Orford, a money manager at Old Mutual’s Macrosolutions unit, said by email. “Whether the MTBPS provides a positive or negative signal for investors, corporate and consumer sentiment, markets are likely to remain cautious” until the African National Congress’s conference to elect a new leader in December, he said. Here’s a round-up of other investor and analyst comments on how the markets could react to Gigaba’s budget proposals: © 2017 Bloomberg