Farmers in northern Nigeria have called on wireless operators including MTN Group to block SIM cards that haven’t been formally registered by their users, saying they enable the operations of militant Islamist group Boko Haram. “We will stage a protest against MTN and take necessary legal action if it fails to comply with this directive within 48 hours,” Mohammed Sani, the head of the region’s association of small-holder farmers, said in an emailed statement on Monday. While all unregistered cards have indeed been disconnected, there have been reports of pre-registered SIM cards being sold on to users who haven’t provided personal data, Tobechukwu Okigbo, a corporate relations executive at Lagos-based MTN Nigeria, said in an emailed response to questions on Tuesday. “To mitigate this, we at MTN put in place a number of controls, and periodically undertake audits,” he said. MTN was fined $1 billion by the Nigerian government last year for missing a deadline to disconnect about 5 million subscribers in a security crackdown. The farmers believe that unregistered SIMs make it easier for Boko Haram to communicate, coordinate attacks and recruit youths without being detected by authorities. Johannesburg-based MTN is Nigeria’s market leader with more than 50 million customers.  Fighting menace The problem “isn’t only affecting MTN,” NCC spokesman Tony Ojobo said by phone from Abuja, the capital. “After meeting with operators yesterday, an industry task force was set up to come up with modalities to fight this menace,” he said. Boko Haram began a violent campaign in 2009 to impose its version of Islamic law on Africa’s most populous country of more than 180 million people. Farming communities in the northeast have been among the most vulnerable to the group’s bombings, kidnappings and hit-and-run attacks. “Unproductive youths of the region could be properly harnessed into productive use through agriculture,” Sani said. “No serious, commercial scale and employable farming activity can take place without security of lives and property.” MTN Nigeria’s customer numbers have been revised down from 60 million in the past six months as it refined the definition of what counts as a subscriber, the company said last week. The shares traded 0.1% lower at R122.86 at 2.23pm in Johannesburg on Tuesday, valuing the company at R232 billion ($16.4 billion). © 2017 Bloomberg 