Undeterred by having its decision to suspend Comair’s domestic license set aside and getting three punitive cost orders against it, the Air Services Licensing Council has applied for leave to appeal the High Court decision. Comair told Moneyweb it would oppose the application. The Air Services Licensing Council awards and regulates domestic air service licences, without which no domestic airline is allowed to operate. In March 2016 the council came close to suspending all of Comair’s flights. Comair in fact rushed to court and submitted a hand-written draft order to get a temporary stay of the suspension. This was all that prevented Comair from being grounded as a result of a dispute that had been underway since 2014. The dispute stemmed from a complaint laid by rival FlySafair. Read: The booboo that almost cost Comair its license to fly The council’s application for leave to appeal comes at a time when its own internal strife is spilling into the open. Advocate Frans van der Westhuizen, one of the council members, recently won a R300 000 damages claim for defamation against an official of the Department of Transport. Moneyweb earlier reported that Andries Ntjane made several allegations against Van der Westhuizen in two emails sent to other members of the council and several transport officials. This included an allegation that Van der Westhuizen was voting in favour of Comair while the majority of council members voted against it. Van der Westhuizen said in court papers Ntjane painted him as someone who favours “certain operators/applicants and that he wants to prejudice certain operator/applicants for some unknown reason”. The court has since vindicated Van der Westhuizen. The first vindication came three weeks ago when the High Court in Pretoria set aside the council’s decision to suspend Comair’s licence and against which the council now wants to appeal. The council decision was based on its erroneous contention that Comair did not comply with the legal requirement for 75% local ownership and voting rights. The court at the time gave three punitive cost orders against the council. It found that the council did not take into account the substantial information Comair submitted to prove its compliance with the ownership and voting rights requirements and mistakenly made calculations based on the residential address of Mr Allan Gray in Bermuda. It should have referred to Allan Gray, the local investment fund instead, as was clear from Comair’s submission, the court found. The Department of Transport failed to respond to several questions Moneyweb put to it regarding the matter. Van der Westhuizen was further vindicated when the regional court in Pretoria on Friday October 13 awarded him the R300 000 in damages he claimed from Ntjane for defamation. Van der Westhuizen told Moneyweb Ntjane failed to make an appearance in court. He said the magistrate heard his testimony and satisfied himself that the documents were properly served on Ntjane before granting the order. Ntjane did not know about the order when Moneyweb contacted him on Tuesday. He denied having been informed of the court date and after speaking to his legal representative said he would apply to have the ruling rescinded. He earlier told Moneyweb he would not apologise to Van der Westhuizen, but on Tuesday he said he in fact did, but that Van der Westhuizen proceeded with the litigation. He said he had written to the Minister of Transport and his deputy “to complain about Advocate Van der Westhuizen”. He further stated that other aviation bodies “support my case on the non-performance” of the Council and showed Moneyweb a letter in this regard.