With the South African economy expected to grow less than 1% this year, business confidence close to decade-long lows and political and policy uncertainty an on-going concern, it is hard to see the silver lining. Customers are battling and many listed firms report revenue pressure. At the same time, labour and fuel costs are rising. It doesn’t seem like the time to launch a fund with a predominant domestic equity focus. But veteran fund manager Errol Shear believes this is an opportunity. “The average company is being squeezed, but I think it is a great time. I think domestic South Africa is at a low point and things do turn. We all get so pessimistic but there comes a point where it gets fully discounted in the share prices,” he says. Shear expects there will be some great opportunities to invest in domestically-focused companies at the bottom of the cycle in the short to medium term. “You don’t want to invest when things are at the top of the market. You want to invest when things are looking gloomy and prices are low and I think we may be close to hitting a low for domestic stocks.” For the moment, however, roughly two-thirds of the newly-launched Sasfin BCI Opportunity Equity Fund is invested offshore. Forty-three percent of the portfolio is invested in dual-listed stocks or in locally listed companies, which earn almost all their profits overseas. Another roughly 20% of the portfolio is invested directly offshore, in international exchange-traded funds. The fund, which is benchmarked against the FTSE/JSE All Share Index, may have up to 25% in direct offshore exposure. Shear says there will be a time to migrate the fund into domestically-focused companies at very attractive prices. The fund follows a “pragmatic value” approach – identifying good-quality companies at the right price. The difficulty in finding these opportunities depends on your time horizon, Shear says. A lot of companies are currently cheap and at some point earnings will recover. “In South Africa, we tend to either get very optimistic or very pessimistic and I think at the moment everyone is so pessimistic. You are finding many domestically-focused companies trading at discounts to asset value [and] very cheap relative to sales and that will turn at some stage.” A good investor needs patience, he says. “If I look back over my more than three decades of investing – the very best returns have been when you start investing when investors are very pessimistic.” “When everyone is optimistic and prices are high, you usually find your returns afterwards are not great.” Shear says when he started his investment career in 1986, it was a very bad time for South Africa – there were widespread riots and confidence was poor. “Some of the investments I made in those years, produced superb returns afterwards.” There were also fantastic opportunities after the crash of 1998, the Dot-com bubble of 2000 and the global financial crisis of 2008. Although the FTSE/JSE All Share Index is currently testing new highs and does not seem to be in bear market territory, Shear says the surge this year has largely been driven by a handful of rand-hedge stocks like Naspers, Richemont and Anheuser-Busch InBev. “The offshore stocks have had a good run and we are happy to hold them still, but certainly for domestically-focused shares – we actually have had a bear market. It just doesn’t appear obvious if you look at the broad indices.” Shear says the portfolio would generally hold between 15 and 25 stocks, which would typically be held for three or more years. With the portfolio currently tilted towards “offshore” companies, its biggest holding is Naspers. Although the media and internet giant is not a traditional value stock, the share is trading at a roughly 40% discount to its sum-of-the-parts valuation and is exposed to one of the greatest growth markets in the world – the Chinese consumer market through Tencent, Shear says. The fund also has a meaningful exposure to investment company Reinet, which is trading at a discount of roughly 35% to its net asset value (NAV). It also has a sizeable exposure to local banks. Although lenders aren’t expected to show significant earnings growth in the near future, these companies offer good dividend yields of around 6% or more on a forward basis, Shear says. The fund doesn’t charge performance fees. For retail investors, the management fee is 1% per annum. Shear says he doesn’t believe performance fees are in the interest of investors – the goal was to launch a fund that offers good value for money to investors with long-term savings. He tries to keep transaction costs as low as possible by not trading too actively. “The world has become very competitive. If you don’t offer value to your clients, you are not going to get business.” The minimum lump sum and monthly investments are R25 000 and R1 000 respectively.  Brought to you by Sasfin Asset Managers.