When finance minister Malusi Gigaba delivers his Medium-Term Budget Statement (MTBS) on Wednesday, he won’t be able to escape the shadow cast over the country’s finances by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Over a number of years, government has provided hundreds of billions of rands worth of guarantees to these entities. In terms of these guarantees, if the SOEs are unable to repay their debt costs or the loans themselves, the government will take responsibility for doing so. “The SOEs are still such a major risk to the fiscus,” says economic strategist at Novare, Tumisho Grater. “The fact that you are sitting with these contingent liabilities means that there is uncertainty around whether or not you are going to have this liability end up on the balance sheet of the government. Just for Eskom, this is in the region of R250 billion, or roughly 8% of GDP.” The scale of this problem is one of the big reasons that the ratings agencies are taking such a dim view of government’s finances. With many SOEs underperforming, Treasury is increasingly being called on to pay up. It can’t be business as usual Gigaba is therefore in a position where he cannot ignore the dismal state of many SOEs in terms of their governance and operations. He has to use the MTBS to give the country some indication of what will be done to sort them out. “He’s promised a lot around SOEs, and so we expect a lot out of him for two reasons,” says chief economist at Alexander Forbes Investments, Lesiba Mothata. “Firstly, he gloated about having come from that sector and that he understands it. And he said he’s the right man to sort it out because he gets it.” The recent steps taken at SAA are a starting point. “At least for now we have had a new board and CEO for SAA announced, and Dudu Myeni removed,” says RMB economist Isaiah Mhlanga. “That has been a slight positive, but only a small one [amid] quite a lot of negativity. In itself it hasn’t really managed to boost confidence.” He argues that the changes at SAA are really only what government should have done some time ago. A lot more still needs to happen. “It’s going to be very important for the finance minister to at least give clear timelines for reforms of SOEs in terms of their governance and also what form of guarantees are going to be given to them,” Mhlanga says. “We’ve already seen about R5.2 billion in bailouts given to SAA, but more is still required. So what we will be looking for in the MTBS is to what extent the guarantees to SOEs will increase the risks on the fiscus.” Economist at Sanlam Investment Management, Arthur Kamp, says that for fiscal consolidation to work in the long term, this is significant. “You must protect the balance sheet of the state,” says Kamp. “You don’t push things off balance sheet and create contingent liabilities elsewhere that come back to bite you like SAA has done.” Perhaps the biggest challenge Gigaba faces, however, is the political context. “There is a political influence around SOEs, which is destructive,” says Mothata. “There just isn’t enough political will to pull the rug from under some of these SOEs by saying no more money.” This is particularly the case at Eskom. “Until we make progress at Eskom, there will be no level of comfort in South Africa’s balance sheet,” says Investec Asset Management’s Nazmeera Moola. “Eskom has used R250 billion in government guarantees and there are still another R100 billion of unused guarantees. Until we stabilise Eskom, South Africa’s balance sheet remains at significant risk and there seems to be no move from government to do anything about it.” The nuclear question There will also be a lot of scrutiny on what Gigaba says about nuclear, following the recent cabinet reshuffle. “He cannot afford to include a planned expenditure on nuclear,” says Mothata. “At the World Bank and IMF annual meetings three weeks ago he made it clear that he has no intentions of including nuclear in his budgeting and he doesn’t have the money for it.” For the sake of his credibility, he therefore can’t change that stance. “If he includes nuclear in his budget, it will be very clear that political pressures have overwhelmed sound fiscal principles,” says Moola. “If we don’t hear about nuclear, however, it shows that he has had some sense of courage.” Mhlanga also doubts that there will be a firm announcement on nuclear, given that the ANC will be meeting in December to decide on its policy. It wouldn’t make sense for Gigaba to announce something that could change in just a couple of months. “You could however hear something that will leave the door open,” Mhlanga says. “Such as an announcement that we are going to do it at a pace that is affordable for the country.”