Solid earnings reports from US blue-chip companies sparked optimism in the world’s largest economy, lifting equities, the dollar and Treasury yields. The Dow Jones Industrial Average hit a new high Tuesday after Caterpillar Inc and 3M Co delivered results that topped estimates, while General Motors Co and Fiat Chrysler NV also rallied on earnings. Benchmark Treasury yields broke through the key 2.40% level, while Bloomberg’s dollar index reached the highest point since July. “For the most part, I think, you’ll see earnings continue to come in good — and not just earnings, but increases in revenue that look stronger than expected,” said Gary Bradshaw, a portfolio manager at Hodges Capital Management in Dallas. “The economy is doing great here domestically, the whole world economy is certainly improving, and we’re optimistic that the market is going to continue to go higher because it is earnings-driven.” Elsewhere, investors were eyeing catalysts stretching from an impending European Central Bank meeting and the crisis in Catalonia to prospects for US tax reform and the next Federal Reserve leader. While European stocks were dragged down by Swiss drugmaker Novartis AG, government bonds yields widened and the euro strengthened after data showed the region’s economy maintaining momentum. Japanese equities built on recent gains, with the Nikkei climbing for a record-breaking 16th consecutive session as the yen weakened. Gold fell as industrial metals advanced. The strong results from some of America’s biggest companies fueled speculation that growth is picking up even as President Donald Trump’s economic policies remain largely unfulfilled. That lifted a tone of caution over the the timing of an announcement on the next Fed leader and the chances that tax cuts get enacted this year. “Assuming the tax reform bill does get passed, it could be a very strong environment, especially with interest rates where they’re at, for small caps and mid caps,” Kevin Miller, chief executive officer of Minnesota-based E-Valuator Funds, said in an interview. Miller said passing the overhaul could extend the “strong market” as long as three years. At Thursday’s ECB meeting, officials are expected to offer more insight into plans for tapering the QE program that runs through the end of 2017. Elsewhere, President Xi Jinping of China consolidated his power before the Communist Party’s unveiling of its top leaders on the Politburo and supreme Standing Committee on Wednesday. The composition may determine the pace of Xi’s reform plans, from deleveraging to modernising the military. Stocks in Shanghai gained, while those in Hong Kong dropped. These are some of the key events coming up: The US economy probably expanded at about a 2.5% annualised pace in the third quarter, restrained in part by the effects of two hurricanes, economists forecast the government to report on Friday. Australia updates on third-quarter inflation on Wednesday, while South Korea reports on GDP and Hong Kong on imports and exports. Japan reports on CPI later in the week. Companies reporting earnings this week include Alphabet Inc, Microsoft Corp and Twitter Inc in the technology sector. Ford Motor Co, Volkswagen AG and Boeing Co headline cars and planes. Coca-Cola Co and brewer Heineken NV join European banks including UBS Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc. The week also boasts rate decisions from the Bank of Canada, Norges Bank and Riksbank. Main moves in markets: Stocks The S&P 500 Index rose 0.21% at 2:04 pm in New York; the Dow jumped 0.83%, the biggest gain in six weeks. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.36%. The UK’s FTSE 100 Index rose less than 0.05%. Germany’s DAX Index gained 0.08%. The MSCI Emerging Market Index sank 0.3% to the lowest in more than a week. Currencies The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index climbed 0.3% to the highest in almost 15 weeks. The euro increased 0.1% to $1.1757. The British pound declined 0.6% to $1.3124, the biggest drop in over two weeks. Bonds The yield on 10-year Treasuries climbed four basis points to 2.41%, the highest in more than five months. Germany’s 10-year yield gained four basis points to 0.48%. Britain’s 10-year yield increased four basis points to 1.357%. Commodities Gold decreased 0.4% to $1 276.61 an ounce, the weakest in more than two weeks. West Texas Intermediate crude advanced 1.1% to $52.46 a barrel, the highest in four weeks. LME zinc increased 1.5% to $3 177 per metric ton, the highest in a week. LME copper advanced 0.4% to $7 035.50 per metric ton. Asia Japan’s Topix index rose 0.7 at the close in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 added 0.5%. Australia’s benchmark ended fractionally higher. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.5% and the Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2%. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.1%. The Japanese yen fell 0.4% to 113.89 per dollar, the weakest in almost 15 weeks. © 2017 Bloomberg L.P