Next week’s mini budget will reveal the extent of Jacob Zuma’s remaining political power. It may also provide some indication on whether this week’s cabinet reshuffle is in a last desperate bid to push through state capture deals. Zuma’s time as president of the ANC and the country is running out. #GuptaLeaks and other revelations seems to have also put a brake on looting projects. It is in this context that the move of David Mahlobo to the Department of Energy is so contentious, as this appointment is most definitely not one to clean up this captured department. Mahlobo is one of Zuma’s staunchest loyalists and worked wonders as intelligence minister to keep Zuma in power. He often accompanies Zuma on important foreign visits – including a meeting with President Vladimir Putin in Russia in 2014. The first reaction was that this was a mere deployment of a loyalist to the department to reignite a multibillion rand nuclear deal by which many third parties – but not South Africa – would benefit. But surely not even Zuma is this obvious? Minister of Finance Malusi Gigaba will announce the mini budget next week and if the word “nuclear” appears in the vicinity of “billion”, it would set off a little mushroom cloud over South Africa which even the astronauts in the International Space Station would see. This may therefore be unlikely, but with Zuma… do not discard any possibility. There is however much more to the Department of Energy than the running of Eskom. The recent Sunday Times report that the “new Guptas” – the colourful Gayton McKenzie and Kenny Kunene – are set to benefit as BEE partners from a R5 billion gas deal with Russian company Rosgeo, is particularly relevant. According to the report Mahlobo and two senior Central Energy Fund (CEF) officials travelled with the duo to meet their potential future partners. Details of this deal are a bit sketchy, but Mahlobo’s presence at the department may play a role in the execution of this potential deal. There is also PetroSA, potential fracking deals, pipeline projects, the CEF and fuel reserves which could still yield some handsome returns for those who invested in Zuma. David Mahlobo and Malusi Gigaba Mahlobo’s move to the energy portfolio is most definitely not an attempt to clean out state capture-linked corruption within Eskom. The readings of virtually all analysts are that it is purely aimed at pushing through the nuclear plan, or some other equally corrupt project. But, this reshuffle may be too late as any major policy diversion will be revealed in the mini budget next week.  This budget, which sets out government’s spending plans for the next three years – stretching beyond Zuma’s presidency –  link hard cash to government policy. It could provide some insights into why Mahlobo was appointed. This brings Malusi Gigaba into play. Ironically, all the mini budgets under Zuma’s presidency have been labelled “the most important in SA’s history”. This is probably true as they have become progressively more important as the extent of Zuma’s state capture antics became more apparent. When Zuma fired Pravin Gordhan and appointed Gigaba, Gigaba was immediately labelled as captured and proof that Zuma finally extended his tentacles to the controller of South Africa’s cheque book. But since taking over Gigaba’s actions contradicted widespread scepticism and have been pretty sound. Many analysts who were very critical have changed their minds over the past few months. I am one of these, although I am not convinced Gigaba has embraced the ethical light following his appointments of Zupta agents at various state-owned enterprises. He beat my (very low) expectations and emphasised the right things regarding South Africa’s fiscal position and threats to economic growth. Maybe the interaction with credible officials within Treasury or meeting with unemotional but deathly clinical International Monetary Fund (IMF) and credit rating officials, played a role. Maybe he sees that Zuma’s writing is on the wall and has jumped ship. The mini budget announcement will reveal Gigaba’s role – but he is backed into a tight fiscal corner. The money has run out and any non-austerity announcement or budget deficit surprise will see him reunited with the Zupta clan. The best-case scenario for South Africa is that this mini budget proves as unsurprising as those under Nhlanhla Nene and Pravin Gordhan. But under Zuma one never knows. Given his Houdini-skills and his ability to orchestrate the stealth capturing of several state-owned enterprises for several years, we should not be naive to think that his most recent antics are just acts of clumsy desperation.