The fiscal prudence former finance ministers Nhlanhla Nene and Pravin Gordhan instilled in state finances since the 2009 financial crises, seems to have been wrecked in a mere six months since the announcement of the main budget in February. This is evident in the salient numbers revealed in the Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS). The most startling number is the revised budget deficit, which is set to hit 4.3% for the current financial year ending in February next year. This is 1.2 percentage points higher than the 3.1% that was predicted in February this year. The 1.2 percentage points may not sound like much, but it represents a deterioration of 39% in a matter of eight months! In rand terms, the budget shortfall will amount to around R203 billion, which is 14% of the total expense budget of R1.4 trillion. The critical metric of total state debt-to-GDP is also in virtual free fall. Gigaba stated that, unless something material happens, South Africa is on course to see this ratio hit 61% in 2022 (five years away). That is 10 percentage points up from the 51%-level seen in last year’s budget. Interest payments on this debt are also set to rise to 15% of the total expenditure budget by 2021.  Acknowledgement of challenges The MTBPS documents, as well as Gigaba in his address, did acknowledge these challenges quite candidly and it is stated that they could only be overcome through increased inclusive and transformational economic growth. But the MTBPS lacked tangible plans. It may not be the platform where new plans are announced, but given the fiscal erosion it would have been prudent to at least surprise with proactive steps to mitigate a further deterioration. This is evident from Gigaba’s speech where he used the word “must” no less than 48 times, most of which were used in the context of what needs to happen to stimulate inclusive economic growth. But apart from frequent references to the 14-point plan announced earlier this year, there was nothing significant mentioned that may change the current trajectory. There weren’t serious austerity plans either. Confidence Gigaba did address the key issue of the lack of confidence within various sectors and among many stakeholders of the economy. He used this word 18 times in his speech and acknowledged stringent steps to stabilise the dire state of many state-owned enterprises such as SAA, Post Bank and Eskom. This, however, has been a theme for some time now, and I think the private sector would struggle to find anything between the lines to boost confidence levels. In fact, this MTBPS instills very little confidence that government can turn the ship around. Elephants in the room Gigaba also did not address the various elephants in the room, several of which were sitting a few meters away from the podium. State capture did not feature and neither did corruption. A nuclear build plan also did not feature. (In fact, the term was only used once in a table in one of the annexures, which showed a nominal R4 million increase in the budget allocation over the next three years.) This all means that the expanding ripple effect of the ongoing political turmoil in the country has now hit the country’s fiscal position – one of the last remaining assets South Africa had to stave off further rating downgrades. SA can therefore kiss its last remaining credit rating from Moody’s goodbye, and expect Fitch and Standard & Poor’s to cut their already sub-investment grade ratings even further. It may be just semantics, but in the current political environment it is worthwhile to mention that at the end of his address Gigaba thanked President Jacob Zuma for his guidance and leadership, whilst Deputy-President Cyril Ramaphosa was thanked for his “encouragement” and “guidance”. Interesting choice of words. To read finance minister Malusi Gigaba’s full medium-term budget speech, click here.