Michael van Straaten, the straight and fast-talking Verimark CEO, is a hard man to find. A few weeks into October, he has already clocked up air miles to Europe, the US and more recently, China. “I’m running like hell and I haven’t even recovered from jet lag.” There’s a purpose to Van Straaten’s jet-setting: he is on the prowl for export opportunities at trade fairs in France, Germany, Spain, Las Vegas, China and Hong Kong. Trade fairs are also an opportunity for Verimark – the retailer behind Floorwiz mops, Genesis vacuum cleaners, and Bauer pans promoted through “As seen on TV!” adverts – to showcase its products to the world. Although Verimark has stuck to its 40-year-old marketing strategy of achieving sales through call centres and TV adverts which direct customers to its stores, it has been forced to adapt to new times as competition among retailers has intensified. Adapting entails diversifying into offshore markets. However, this strategy is not new for the company that imports all its products and is reliant to rand exchange movements for profitability. Ten years ago, Verimark was supplying its products to 50 countries including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Singapore, and others. As the demand for products and profitability sank, Verimark pulled out of these markets – notably shutting its in-store demonstrations in 2015 at 24 stores in Singapore. Van Straaten said Verimark has received interest from international markets for its products, reviving its appetite to give exports a second shot. However, this won’t happen overnight as export sales will only manifest in 18 months. It’s not as easy as manufacturing the products and shipping them internationally. “Potential buyers in international markets would ask us to send them only one sample of a Verimark product to test it. After they are satisfied with it, then we would supply them with a few. And only then they would start buying.” It’s not an easy market to crack as the success rate for product adoption in the US was 7% ten years ago, which has recently reduced to 5%, said Van Straaten. This means that 95% of the product sent for consideration fails to pass muster. Verimark is increasingly pressured to diversify from SA, which would act as a hedge against the risk of rand volatility. The retailer knows the risk of a weak rand too well. Its profit before tax dropped by 22.7% to R13.1 million for the year to February 2015 when the rand weakened by 35% during its financial year vs profit increases of 184.7% to R37.3 million for the year to February 2016 on a rand that improved by 25%. Despite the rand being remarkably resistant through double junk downgrades to SA’s credit rating, as well as increased political uncertainty and an economy entering a recession, Verimark’s revenue rose by 13.7% to R209.7 million for the six months to August 2017. However, its profit before tax decreased to R2.2 million compared with R3.9 million in 2016. Cash generated from operations was a negative R30.3 million compared with a gain of R8.1 million. The introduction of new products by almost 86% compared with the previous period meant that Verimark increased its advertising spend and took a knock to profitability. “When we test and introduce products there is a loss you make for the short term given the investments made such as shooting a commercial. But the products introduced will benefit Verimark in the months ahead,” said Van Straaten. He believes that losses will be recouped from Christmas sales, a crucial period for retailers. “The sales growth we have seen over recent months is exciting. We look forward to one of our best Christmases ever.”