The rand and government bonds remained under pressure on Thursday in a second day of heavy losses sparked by a bleak budget outlined by Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba on Wednesday that raised the risk of credit downgrades. Resource stocks, which earn their revenue in dollars and pay their costs in rand, lifted the bourse due to the weaker rand. At 1544 GMT, the rand traded at 14.19 versus the dollar, 1% weaker on the day after earlier hitting an 11-month low of 14.30. The rand closed at 14.05  on Wednesday. The rout was triggered after Gigaba raised the estimated budget deficit in the 2017/18 fiscal year to 4.3% of GDP, which would be the highest deficit since 2009. He also halved this year’s economic growth forecast and warned that public debt would reach nearly 60% of GDP in the next three years. Rating agencies were downbeat on the deficit and debt news. Fitch, which already has South Africa’s foreign and local-currency debt in junk territory, said the lack of concrete plans to limit the damage to the economy that will be caused by a larger budget deficit and ballooning debt was worrying. S&P said politics will probably trump near-term macro-economic performance. “It’s likely you’re seeing some profit-taking at the moment but we see a big chance of the rand going further down in the next few sessions mainly on the fears of further downgrades,” said emerging market analyst at Continuum Economics Juri Ken. Fitch and S&P rate South African foreign-currency debt in sub-investment, or “junk”, territory. But only Fitch has the country’s local-currency debt in junk. Moody’s rates both the foreign and local currency debt a notch above speculative grade. The yield on the benchmark government bond due in 2026 was at 9.28% from 9.255 the day before. “The markets are reacting to concerns about what happens to South Africa’s ratings. Downgrades seem more likely than not,” said Halen Bothma, an economist at ETM Analytics. Read: Rating agencies downbeat on budget deficit, debt news On the bourse, the benchmark Top 40 Index rose 0.8% to 52 274 points while the All Share Index added 0.78% to 58 576 points. The bullion sector rose 4.21% and the platinum index jumped 7.21% as investors opted for resource stocks which will benefit from currency weakness. “People are rushing into rand hedges, making the assumption that the rand will remain weak,” said Cratos Capital equities trader Greg Davies referring to stocks which tend to strengthen as the currency weakens.