South Africa’s share indexes posted record high closes for the second straight day on Friday, helped by gains in market heavyweight Lonmin after lenders waived some of its debt covenants. With the rand slipping after US jobs data, the benchmark JSE Top 40 Index gained 0.44% to 51 010. The All Share Index added 0.41% to 57 231. Lonmin’s lenders have waived some of its debt covenants, allowing the platinum miner to buy the rest of its Pandora joint venture mine, the South African-focused producer said earlier on Friday. The miner, which is also listed in London, jumped 16.90% to R15.15. “The waiver gives Lonmin some breathing room because it relaxes some of the balance sheet pressures we’ve been seeing,” said Momentum Securities equity analyst Sibonginkosi Nyanga. Another market heavyweight, E-commerce group Naspers , also rose. The firm, which has a one-third stake in Hong Kong-listed Tencent, hit an all-time high and closed 0.90% higher at 3 164.69 rand on the back of gains in the Chinese internet company. Cement producer PPC closed 1.24% lower at R6.37 after it said that Nigeria’s Dangote Cement had withdrawn its interest in a tie-up. Read more: Dangote withdraws tie-up deal with PPC On the currency market, the rand drifted lower as US jobs data reinforced the view that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates before the end of the year. The rand was 0.44% weaker than Thursday’s close at 13.74 to the dollar at 1536 GMT, after earlier in the day hitting its lowest since mid-April at 13.8125. The US jobs report showed a fall in employment in September because of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, but a rise in wages could boost inflation and provide an argument for the Fed to tighten policy soon. Higher US rates often drain capital away from higher-yielding, but riskier emerging markets, weighing on their currencies. South African assets have benefited this year from strong appetite for high-yielding assets, though the rand has fallen over 5% against the dollar since the start of last month. In fixed income, the yield for the benchmark 2026 government bond was up 5.5 basis points at 8.705%. 