Since the middle of 2014 South African investors have had to get used to the idea of lower returns. Over the last three years, the average multi-asset high-equity unit trust has delivered annualised performance of around 8.5%, which is not significantly better than one could have earned in the money market. However, 2017 has seen some very interesting performances from certain regions. These are probably not places into which most investors would place large parts of their portfolios, but it does show that there is some life in the world. The table below lists some of the top-performing local unit trusts for the year to date: Source: Morningstar The first observation is that all of these funds are invested offshore. They also have a fairly narrow focus – India, Africa and emerging markets. Broadly, this reflects the global shift towards emerging and frontier markets over the last ten to 24 months. After a long period of underperformance, these regions are once again in favour. The Sanlam India Opportunities Fund has benefited hugely from the positive sentiment that has been shown towards the Indian market since Nahendra Modi took over as prime minister in 2014. It has delivered a five-year annualised return of 19.51%, which is exceptional in the current environment. The Denker unit trust is a relatively new fund so it does not have a track record to analyse, but the Coronation Global Emerging Markets offering has a very interesting performance history. As the table and graphic below show, it has had two exceptional years in the last five, with three years of almost no growth in between: Source: Morningstar  Source: Morningstar This is not unusual for an emerging markets fund, as returns can be extremely volatile. This is even more pronounced in funds investing in frontier markets, such as the two African equity funds on the list above. Despite the year it has had so far, the ALUWANI fund’s three-year return is negative, and over five years is has shown an annualised performance of just 7.44%. As the table and graphic below show, investors have had a wild ride over this period: Source: Morningstar  Source: Morningstar Despite the surge in 2017, the fund is still well below where it was at its highs in mid-2014. This is due to the sharp drop last year that wiped out most of those past gains. This is a big reason why it is so difficult for investors to put money into these kinds of funds. Their performance is so volatile that you need a very strong constitution to bear it. For many people, however, the long-term growth potential of emerging and frontier markets is too strong to ignore. They are therefore willing to allocate a portion of their portfolio to these kinds of funds and, importantly, take a long-term view that doesn’t get disrupted by the short-term volatility.