A battle royale is shaping up between the West Coast Environmental Protection Agency (WCEPA) and mining company Kropz Elandsfontein over an ecologically sensitive piece of land on the West Coast that just happens to house the largest phosphate deposit in South Africa and one of the largest in the southern hemisphere. Phosphate is used in the production of fertiliser, among other things. Last week WCEPA launched an urgent court interdict to stop the mining company from continuing to dewater and recharge the Elandsfontein aquifer – a critical water source situated on the water-stressed West Coast – while the mine’s water use licence (WUL) is suspended. Kropz is opposing the application, arguing that its water use license has not been suspended, and the matter will be heard in the Western Cape High Court in November. Elandsfontein is an expanse of almost 5 000ha of agricultural land that is home to several thriving ecosystems, including the Saldanha Flats Strandveld and Langebaan Dune Strandveld. Its growing wildlife population includes eland, kudu, gemsbok, duiker, ostrich, zebra and bontebok. Within this is the mining operation, which contains the phosphate deposit and which is limited to a fenced off area of 500ha. To the west of the mine lies the Langebaan lagoon and 5kms to the east, the Elandsfontein fossil field which has been declared a Provincial Heritage Site. Beneath this land lies an aquifer, which flows in a southwesterly direction towards the lagoon. The licence to mine phosphate at Elandsfontein was granted in 2015, but was strongly opposed by WCEPA. A water use license was only issued earlier this year and WCEPA filed a notice of appeal. This case was accepted by the Water Tribunal, which should then result in an automatic suspension of the water use license. “The Elandsfontein mine poses a serious risk to the Elandsfontein aquifer – an important aquifer in this already dry part of the country. Impacts on the aquifer may, in turn, affect the Langebaan lagoon, a declared Ramsar site and a water body used extensively by many small-scale fishers, kite surfers and nature lovers,” says Nicola Viljoen, WCEPA treasurer. “We are not against mining,” adds Walter Anderson, senior associate at Cullinans & Associates, which is acting for WCEPA. “But in this scenario mining is unjustifiable. It’s upstream from a lagoon that is fed by an aquifer, and near to a biodiverse corridor. It is a poster child of where mining should not be allowed.” However Kropz technical director Michelle Lawrence disputes this assessment. “We have invested more than R6 million on ground water studies and the development and peer review of the groundwater model that informs our responsible management of the Elandsfontein aquifer’s water.” Suspending water activities will have dire consequences she adds. “If over time we are not be able to continue to safely pump the water out of the Elandsfontein aquifer around our open pit and allow it to filter back into the aquifer in accordance with our dewatering system design, the pit will flood.” The Elandsfontein mine has been developed since 2009 by Kropz at a capital cost of R1.5 billion. With an estimated life of mine of 15 years it will produce about 1.35 million tonnes of phosphate a year at full production, both for the local market and export. However in August this year, Kropz announced that commissioning of Elandsfontein would be delayed due both to a substantial drop in the global phosphate price and a need to reconfigure the mine’s processing plant. This fuelled fears long held by WCEPA that Kropz is intent on having sections of the West Coast National Park deproclaimed (where national park status is withdrawn) because the mineral deposit runs into the park. This was confirmed by Lawrence. “Kropz prepared a pro-forma application for discussion with DMR for an extension of its mining right into a minor portion of Elandsfontein 3/349 in April 2015. The DMR confirmed that mining is not allowed in a national park and Kropz has not pursued the matter any further.” That it has not made a formal request was confirmed by the CEO of SANParks Fundisile Mketini. However in a letter addressed to Melissa Fourie, executive director of the Centre for Environmental Rights, he noted that Elandsfontein executives had “alluded to a possible request to extend their mining areas to the affected portion of the West Coast National Park during visits by SANParks exco members in October 2016 and June 2017.” Lawrence dismissed this interpretation, saying that Kropz employees had merely “pointed out that the phosphate deposit extends across the boundary into the national park”. The West Coast National Park is not the only national park to contain valuable mineral. There are considerable mineral deposits in many of South Africa’s national parks.  “Mining in national parks is illegal,” says Anderson. “But that does not stop the constant lobbying – both at a macro level which aims to change legislation and at a local micro level where lawyers examine the proclamation of extensions to national parks in a search for weakness. The proclamation to that part of the park (and deposit) is then challenged. If they are successful – then they enter an application for a mining right. “It’s an onslaught.” Fortunately, he adds, the success rate is not yet very high.