At the start of 2017, the rise of populism and politics took centre stage. Donald Trump was just elected president of the United States and there were questions about the impact his decisions could have on the world’s largest economy. While businesses generally welcomed promises of significant fiscal stimulus, economists were concerned about the potential inflationary impact. Fast forward ten months, and most of these concerns have faded somewhat, says Keith Wade, chief economist at global investment manager Schroders. Trump has generally found it very difficult to get his plans through Congress.  But the main shift in political sentiment – particularly in Europe – occurred when Emmanuel Macron was elected president of France. The first round of the French presidential election was “a bit of a watershed” for the European market because it implied that the concerns about populism and the break-up of the European Union faded. Macron is neither left nor right and pro-EU, Wade says. Strong global growth One reason political risk has become less of an issue is because the world economy is doing well. An amalgamation of business surveys from Europe, the US and Japan provides one of the strongest growth signals since the bounce back in 2010. “The world economy is really firing on all cylinders at the moment,” Wade says. At the same time, there has also been a pickup in global trade and capex investment whilst PMI (Purchasing Managers’ Index) in both developed and emerging markets have generally signalled expansion. For the first time in six years, economists have not had to downgrade their forecasts for world GDP, Wade says. Earnings estimates have followed a similar pattern, with analysts slightly upgrading their forecasts. “That is one reason why equity markets have done so well.” “The growth in the real economy has translated into expectations and higher earnings numbers and we are seeing that in the Q3 [third quarter] numbers that are coming out at the moment in the US.” Muted inflation Wade says while the expectation is usually that stronger growth would be accompanied by a more rapid rise in prices, core inflation in the US has been weak– falling from 2.3% year-on-year in January to 1.7% in August. While some argue that this is a once-off occurrence that can be attributed to cuts in mobile phone charges, a CPI measurement that tries to eliminate big outliers – the trimmed mean CPI – has been coming down as well. “This is quite significant. It is telling us something about the US economy and you might actually see it more broadly – that inflation has generally surprised on the downside throughout the course of 2017.” Wade says the US Federal Reserve is quite perplexed about this with chair Janet Yellen admitting that the Fed can’t explain why inflation has been so low. Yellen is of the view that inflation will pick up later next year and that the Fed is right to push ahead with the normalisation of interest rates. “I would generally concur with that, but I still think there is a lot of uncertainty.” For example, US e-commerce giant Amazon is having a massive impact on retailing in the US, has created a lot of downward pressure on prices, and many retailers have gone bust. “It is not a cyclical effect. It is more of a structural effect. We have to watch this very carefully to see whether or not it persists, but the message from the Fed is they are going to look through it for now, and it looks like they will probably be raising rates in December.” Wade says strong growth and low inflation are characteristics of a “Goldilocks economy” – good growth that is not too hot or too cold but “just right”. It is not generating inflation or causing consternation for central banks. “[It is a] great combination for risk assets. From the macro side that is one very good reason to be overweight risk assets at the moment.”