Opposition parties, trade unions and civil society organisations have been united in voicing their alarm over suggestions that government may be forced to raid the public servants pension pot, in a bid to shore up ailing State-owned enterprises and government finances in general. This outcry reached a tipping point when Dan Matjila, CEO of the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), which manages R1.86 trillion worth of funds on behalf of the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF), said a plot was being hatched to have him removed from his post, and in the process facilitate the ‘capture’ of the PIC. Matjila retracted this statement a day later in a press conference attended by Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba. However, rumours continue to swirl that the PIC is in the process of being captured and, as a result, would be open to pressure to make investments that would not be in the interest of the GEPF or its pensioners. As such, Gigaba has taken steps to increase investment transparency at the PIC. He has requested that the board of the PIC provide him with a list of all its beneficiaries and the investments it has made. The list will detail the directors and shareholders of those companies and will be made public. Further he has asked Matjila and the board to conduct a forensic investigation into any concerns of irregularities at the asset manager. This will ensure that there is transparency and further, build confidence in the institution. This is significant, because although the PIC discloses its financials as well as the investments it has made, only the top-ten investments per investment category are disclosed, with the result that a significant percentage of assets are disclosed as ‘other’, making it difficult to form any view on the risk of the latter assets. “We need to assure pension holders that those with political or economic power will not be allowed to unduly influence the PIC,” Gigaba said. “It is in the best interest of pension holders and investors in the PIC, for us to ensure that the asset manager does not function in an opaque manner.” Of some consolation to pensioners is the fact that the GEPF is a defined benefit fund, which means the pension benefit is guaranteed by the government. So in the worst-case scenario, the fund members are protected from poor investment decisions. However, any shortfall that the government is forced to pick up is ultimately funded by taxpayers and diverts investment from productive sectors of the economy. Read this Moneyweb article for more on the GEPF and PIC. The minister has given the CEO and the board two weeks to respond to this request. He also noted calls by labour unions for a labour representative on the PIC board – this is being considered.