The tussle for consensus within the differing interests about which policy is best suited to salvage the economy will either deepen the crisis or temporarily fix it. This is symptomatic of the political elite’s lack of intelligible response to the economic depression, just as there is confused ‘shock and awe’ in the youth unemployment crisis. At the heart of this there are many questions including one I believe is ignored: What is business South Africa doing to help solve youth unemployment? Before I proceed I must remind you, my readers, of an economic reality South Africa is facing. The democratic project is in a crisis, at least the economic part of it. Overwhelmed by the economic slump, which has now lasted more than four years, and with an output that’s below 3%. The widening current account deficit is now at R110 billion, or 2.4% of GDP. Just this past Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) cut the country’s economic growth forecast to 0.7%. Add the unpredictable quarter-on-quarter GDP data, the rising joblessness mostly driven by youth unemployment and we have wide-ranging reasons to be alarmed. Economists have identified, argued, quantified and written in great detail about the causes of economic crises and what to do. Abstract and concrete reasoning have also been given about government’s attempts to create a business-friendly environment, I’ll exclude the mining sector from this. I’ve written many times about the failures of government and therefore I will spare you the details as an act of kindness. However, if you feel aggrieved, I’ll refer you to my last five columns on Moneyweb, so that you understand that I’m not ‘picking on the indefensible private sector’. The KPMG, McKinsey and SAP state capture involvement reminds us how the private sector is not so innocent, and is in fact revealed to be the not-so-hidden hands in facilitating and enabling collusion and corruption of the public sector and politics. Read more of Mamokgethi Molopyane’s columns here: Quarterly labour force figures paint a grim picture Outdated political ideology is the sick man of this country An uninspiring policy conference quickly to be forgotten It was a bad winter for the economy A leadership vacuum and bad policies Many faults and shortcomings can be found in those leading the country, but on paper and through some of the ‘however muddled policies’ they have tried to create a business-friendly environment. Minister of Finance Malusi Gigaba’s 14-point plan to revive the economy is an example of government trying to clear the fields and attract investment, in other words, they’re trying. I concede that there are companies out there making an effort to make a difference, and I commend them on this, urging others to follow suit. The broad strokes of my challenge are aimed at those companies who should be doing more. Short of publicly rejecting it, the private sector has deliberately failed to support or put forward suggestions on how it can be bettered. In so doing, it has shown South Africa the middle finger in not playing its part in creating jobs and being actively involved in reducing youth unemployment. While the conflict between politics and the economy has never been more evident than in the clumsy politically-inspired firing of Pravin Gordhan, it’s worth reminding the private sector and its renowned captains that it too will be judged for its role in severely dimming the prospects of South Africa’s future prosperity and economic wellbeing. What makes this perverse is that companies are sitting on cash reserves of over a R1 trillion while youth unemployment is two times more than the national average. Chronic youth unemployment is the pressing matter that has far graver consequences on South Africa in the long run. We know how economic growth does not always translate to jobs. Look no further than the Mbeki years, where jobless growth was a defining feature. But what has the private sector done, besides rhetoric on politics, and its leaders and pointing out the obvious. We do ourselves an injustice if we don’t remind our business at large that they’re part of the society and are not just spectators or outsiders. Words must be said about how the private sector is not just failing to do its fair share, but also how it’s hiding behind the finger pointing and blaming policy makers. The greatest obstruction to fixing the economy and get it working again is not government alone, you too private sector in your complacency and investment strike are responsible for our economic woes. The best way to get out of this economic pit is to grow out of it and to do so, the private sector must lead the way absorbing the youth into jobs. Start here: Let us get one thing out of the way; South Africa’s private sector refusal to invest in the country increases unemployment and simultaneously sentences the economy to collapse. All this, while the future of the country and the fate of its youth hangs in the balance. If the private sector does not snap out of its self-righteousness and does not find a way to reactivate investment into the economy and create jobs for the youth, some of which are graduates, it too is responsible for sabotaging the South African project. I therefore remind the private sector, you’re playing a role in the country’s economic failure, you too will be doomed to years of gloom and endless mutual reproach about “they fiddled while South Africa burned and her youth were begging for bread at traffic lights”.